



 



 



 



 



‚ñ†



I



‚ñ†



 



. TH*



DESCRIPTION



OK



GREECE,



sr



P AUS AN I AS.



THE



DESCRIPTION



OF



GREECE,



BY



PAUS ANIAS.



TRANSLATED FROM THE GREEK.



WITH NOTES,



fn which much of the Mythology of the Greeks is unfolded froma Theory which has been for many Ages unknown.



AND ILLUSTRATED WITH



>



MAPS AND VIE^√Ü^A^TJ^t^pRAVED.IN THKtfE rypiLuif^Es.



vol. m.



Victa jacet Pietas.'



Ov la.



LONDON:



JRINT¬£p FOR R. FAULDER, NEW BOND-STREET.



MDCCXCIV.



. C r



 



 



THE



DESCRIPTION



GREECE.



BOOK IX.



B ≈í O T I C S.



C-H A P. I.



B≈ìotia borders on the Athenians, and the rest ofthe Attic land: and the Plat√¶enses are near the Eleuthe-renses. But the whole ;uAijon .of the-B≈ìotians derived itsname from B≈ìotus, who they fay was the son of Itonus,and the nymph Melanippe. They add, that Itonus wasthe son of Amphictyon. Many of their towns too are de≠nominated from men; but i stuhgreaser number fromwomen. The Plat√¶enses indeed were, as it appears tome, natives of B≈ìotia from the first; but they are ofopinion that they derived their name from Plat√¶a, thedaughter of a river. It is, however, evident that thePlat√¶enses reigned here in ancient times. For all Greeceformerly was in subjection to royal authority, and therewas no such thing as a democracy to be found amongthem. But the Plat√¶enses do not know any thing oftheir kings except Asopus, and Cith√¶ron who was priDr



Vol. UI. B to



\



t THE DESCRIPTION



to Asopus: and they fay that one of these gave a name to-a mountain, and the other to a river. It appears too to≠me that Plat√¶a, from whom the city was denominatedrwas the daughter of king Asopus, and not of a river.Before the battle which the Athenians fought at Mara≠thon, the Plat√¶enses performed nothing which deservesto be recorded. But in this battle they assisted the Athe≠nians; and after the irruption of Xerxes into Greece, hadthe boldness to ascend their ships with the Athenians,and punished in their own dominions Mardonius, the sonef Gobryas, who commanded the army of Xerxes. Ithappened, however, that the Plat√¶enses were twice drivenfrom B≈ìotia, and again restored to it. For in the warbetween the Peloponnesians and Athenians, the Laced√¶≠monians besieged and took Plat≈ì*: and when it was re≠stored through the peace which Antalcidas, a Spartan,,made between the Greeks and the king of the Persians,,and the Plat√¶enses that had fled to Athens returnedto their na&e/:ctoitatty,\A;wa¬£:.'uVaan afflicted withdie calamities of.vsar. . For at, .the time when open warwas proclaimed ag&jn,$ /fofcbans, but the Plat√¶≠enses asserted th'f t' tftey-Velfc'dt -peJce with them, becausewhen Cadmea was talceti ty- rite* Laced√¶moniansy theyneither assisted their counsels nor operations; the'The-bans, on the contrary, asserted that it was the Laced√¶≠monians who made the peace, and who afterwards act≠ing contrary to the truce, caused it to be violated by theether cities that had engaged in it.



The Plat√¶enses, therefore, suspecting the intentions of:the Thebans, strongly fortified their city; and thosethat lived at some distance from the city, did not ventureinto the fields, at all hours of the day; but kjiowing that



 the.



OF GREECE. 



the Thebans were accustomed to protract their publicassemblies for a long time, they watched the time of theirassembling together, and, whenever this happened, cul≠tivated their land in peace. But Neocles the Theban, whowas then the chief magistrate of the B≈ìotians, perceivingthe crafty conduct of the Plat√¶enses, ordered each of theThebans to come into the assembly armed, and immedi≠ately led them, not in a direct line from Thebes throughthe fields, but to Hyfia, which is between the Eleuthe-rans and Attica, and where the Plat√¶enses had no spies.This took place about the middle of the day: and thePlat√¶enses, supposing that the Thebans were engaged intheir assembly, came into their fields as usual, having thegates of the city securely closed behind them. Th¬´Thebans therefore made the Plat√¶enses that were withinthe walls promise, that they would leave the city beforesun-set; each man bringing with him one> and eachwoman two garments. At that time, indeed, the Plat√¶≠enses were oppressed in a manner very different from thatwhich took place formerly through the Laced√¶monians,under the command of Archidamus: for then when theyjvere besieged they were prevented from leaving the cityby a twofold wall; but here the Thebans would not sufferthem to enter into their walls. This second loss happenedto the Plat√¶enses, in the third year prior to the battle atLeuctra, and when Asteus was the Athenian archon;Every part of the city at this time was destroyed by theThebans, except the temples of the gods. But the man≠ner in which the city was taken, became the safety of thePlat√¶enses. For they were, in the first place, receivediy the Athenians j. and afterwards Philip being victoriousat Chaeronea, placed a guard over the Thebans, endea-B a Toured



 THE DESCRIPTION



Toured by every possible means to accomplish their de≠struction, and at last restored the Plat√¶cnses to their an≠cient habitations.



UN turning a little to the right hand from the straightroad of the Platxan land under Cith√¶ron, you will fee theruins of Hysia and Erythr√¶. These were once cities ofthe B≈ìotians; and even now among the ruins of Hysiathere is a temple of Apollo, the half of which is entire,and a sacred well. According to the B≈ìotians, formerlythose that drank out of this well were endowed with thegift of prophecy. Proceeding from hence into the publicroad, you will again fee, on the right hand, that whichis called the sepulchre of Mardonius. Indeed that thedead body of Mardonius could no where be found afterthe battle in which he fell, is generally acknowledged;nor can they tell by whom he was buried. It appears,however, that Artontes, the son of Mardonius, gave greatgifts to Dionysophanes the Ephefian, and to others be≠longing to the Ionians, that they might not be negligentwith respect to the interment of Mardonius. And thisroad leads from Eleuther√¶ to Plat√¶a. But as you pro≠ceed from Megaree, you will fee on the right hand afountain, and a little beyond this a stone, which they callthe stene of Act√¶on: for they fay that Actaion used tosleep on this, when he was weary with hunting; and thatin this place he (aw Diana washing herself in the neigh≠bouring fountain. But Stesichorus Himer√¶us writes, thatDiana threw upon Act√¶on a stag's hide, and thus causedhim to be slain by his dogs, that he might not marry



CHAP. II.



 



OF GREECE. 



Semele. For my own part, I can easily beliere that Ac-t√¶on might be torn in pieces by his dogs, without the in≠terference of the goddess, in consequence of their rushingfuriously upon him, without perceiving who he was.



In what part of Cith√¶ron the destruction of Pentheusthe son of Echion happened, or where Oedipus when hewas born was exposed, is not known by any one; thoughI am not ignorant of the bisected road belonging to thePhocenses, in which Oedipus flew his father. But themountain Cith√¶ron is sacred to Jupiter Cith√¶ronius, ofwhich I shall speak more copiously when my discourseleads me to mention it again. Near the entrance toPlat√¶a, you may perceive the sepulchres of those thatfought against the Medes. The other Greeks indeed haveone common sepulchre: but the Laced√¶monians andAthenians that fell in that battle have separate tombs;and upon them there are elegies composed by Simonides.Not far from the common sepulchre of the Greeks, thereis an altar of Jupiter Eleutherius. The sepulchre is madeof brass; but the altar and statue of Jupiter are of whitestone. Even at present, every fifth year, they celebratethe festivals called Eleutheria, in which the greatest re≠wards are proposed for the race. They run before thealtar armed. The trophy which the Greeks erected fortheir victory over the Plat√¶enscs, is about fifteen stadiadistant from the city. When you enter the city, in thatpart which contains the altar and statue of EleutherianJupiter, you will see the heroic monument of Plat√¶a.What the Plat√¶enscs report concerning her, I have al≠ready related- The Plat√¶enscs too have a temple of Junowhich deserves to be inspected, both for its magnitude,pud the ornament of the statues which it contains. QeB j entering



 



 the description



entering this temple, you will fee a statue of Rhea pre-;senting Saturn with a stone wrapped in swaddling clothes,instead of the child of which she had been delivered. Theycall Juno, Teleia, or the perfect. There is a large statueof the goddess in an upright position: both these sta≠tues are made of Pentelican stone, and are the works ofPraxiteles. There is another statue of Juno in a sittingposture in the same temple; and this wa¬ß made by Cal-limachus. But they call the goddess Numpheuemenc, orespoused, on the following account.



CHAP. III.



TliEY fay, that Juno being angry with Jupiter, on,what account it is not known, retired to Euboea; andJupiter not being able to appease her, came to Cith√¶ron,who then reigned over the Plat√¶enses. This Cithseronwas not second to any one in craft. He therefore per-;suaded Jupiter to make a statue of wood, to phee it veiledin a car drawn by two oxen, and publicly assert that thiswas Flat√¶a, the daughter of Asopus, whom he was goingto marry. As soon as Juno heard this, she immediatelycame to the car, and, cutting off the veil, perceived thatwhat stie supposed was a new married lady, was nothingmore than a wooden image; and in consequence of this-'became reconciled to Jupiter. In remembrance of thisreconciliation, they celebrate a festival which is calledD√¶dal, because the ancients called wooden statues D√¶da≠lian. But it appears to me that this name was usurped,before D√¶dalus the son of Palamaon was born; and thatafterwards, from D√¶dalian statues D√¶dalus derived his



name.



OF GREECE. y



name. The Plat√¶cnses therefore celebrate this D√¶dalfestival, every seventh year, as an historian of this coun≠try told me: in reality, however, the interval of timebetween its celebration is not so long. But though I wus‚ñ†desirous of accurately numbering the interval of rime from‚Ä¢one D√¶dal festival to another, I was not able to accom≠plish my design. They celebrate this festival in the fol≠lowing manneri‚ÄîThere is a grove, which is the greatestin Bceotia, not far from Alalcomen√¶; and in this placethere are many ancient oaks. The Plat√¶enfes cominginto this grove, place in it portions of boiled flesh. Andthey have but little trouble indeed to defend it from otherbirds, but they are obliged to guard it diligently from thecrows j and if any one of these birds carries oft" any por≠tion of the flesh, they observe on what tree it perches,cut down this tree, and make from -it a D√¶dalian statue z/or they call the statue thus made D√¶dalian.



This festival the Plat√¶enfes celebrate -privately, andcall it the lesser D√¶dali: for the B≈ìotians celebrate thegreater D√¶dala in a very public manner, every sixtiethyear. They fay that the festival was omitted for solong a tim? when the Plat√¶enfes were driven from theirnative country. And in the lesser D√¶dala, indeed, theyprepare fourteen statues every year; and these the Plat√¶≠enfes, Coron√¶i, Thespienses, Tanagr√¶i, Ch√¶ronenses,Orchomenii, Lebadenses, and Thebans, take away by lot.For these people thought proper to be reconciled with thePlat√¶enfes, to partake of their common assembly, and tofend a victim to tlie D√¶dal festival, when Thebes was re≠stored by Cassander the son of Antipater. But those citieswhich are of less estimation bestow their gifts upon thisfestival according to lot. They carry the image to Aso-



B  pus,



 THE DESCRIPTION



pus, and, having placed it in a car, commit it to the careof a bride-maid. After this, too, according to lots, theydrive their cars from the river to the top of the ThebanCithaeron. On the summit of this mountain an altar isprepared for them and this altar is raised in the follow≠ing manner:‚ÄîThey aptly join together square piecesof wood, just as if they were raising a structure of stones;and afterwards carry to the top of the mountain, twig*piled on these pieces of wood. But the cities sacrifice acow of a proper age to Juno, and a bull to Jupiter, thevictims being filled with wine and odoriferous herbs; andat the fame time place the D√¶dala upon the altar. Morewealthy individuals sacrifice a cow and an ox; but thepoorer sort sacrifice small sheep. They burn all the. vic≠tims in a similar manner, and the altar is, at the fame time,burnt with them. I know that this flame is prodigious,jmd may be seen at a great distance. Beyond the summitof the mountain upon which they raise the altar, afteryou have descended about fifteen stadia, you will sec-thecavern of the nymphs called Cith√¶ronides. .This cavernthey denominate Spkregidion: and they fay that formerlythe nymphs used to prophesy in this cavern.



CHAP. IV.



The Plat√¶enfes too have a temple of Minerva Arc'ta,or the martial, which was raised from the spoils given tothe Plat√¶enses by the Athenians after the battle at Ma≠rathon. The statue of the goddesses made of wood, andis gilt, except the face, and the extremities of the hands,and feet, which are of Pentelican stone. Its magnitude



OF GREECE, 



is nearly equal to that brazen statue of Minerva whichthe Athenians dedicated in their tower from the Mara-ithonian spoils. Phidias too made this statue of Minervafor the Plat√¶enfes. In the temple there are picturespainted by Polygnotus, viz. Ulysses destroying the suirtors; and the expedition, prior to this, of Onatas to theArgive Thebes. These pictures are in the vestibule ofthe walls. At the foot of the goddess there is a statue ofArimnestus, who was the general of the Plat√¶enfes inthe engagement against Mardonius; and, prior to this,in the battle at Marathon. Among the Plat√¶enfes toothere is a temple of Ceres Eleufinia, and a sepulchre ofLeitus. This Leitus was the only one of all the B≈ìotiancommanders, that returned home from the Trojan war.But Mardonius, and the horse which he commanded,corrupted the fountain Gargaphia, because the army of theGreeks which stood opposite to them drank the water ofthis fountain. Afterwards, however, the water was pu≠rified by the Plat√¶enfes. As you proceed from Plat√¶a toThebes, you will fee the river Peroe. They fay thatPeroe was the daughter of Asopus. But before you passover the Asopus, on turning by the side of the river tothe lower parts of the country, and travelling to the dis≠tance of about forty stadia, you will arrive at the ruins ofScolus. Among these ruins there is an imperfect templeof Ceres and Proserpine, with half statues of the god≠desses. Even now the Asopus separates the land of theFlataeenscs from that of the Thebans.



CHAP.



f* THE DESCRIPTION



CHAP. V.



ThEY say that the first inhabitants of Thebes werethe Ecten√¶, whose king was Ogygus, a native of the place;and from whom many of the poets call Thebes Ogygise.They add, that these people were destroyed by a pestilence;and that the Hyantes and Aones, who, as it appears tome, were B≈ìotians and not foreigners, inhabited Thebesafter the Ecten√¶. But Cadmus and the army of the Ph≈ì≠nicians attacking these places, the Hyantes were van≠quished, and fled the following night. Cadmus howeversuffered the Aones, who implored his protection, to re≠main, and mingle themselves with the Ph≈ìnicians. TheAones therefore fixed their habitations in different towns;but Cvlmus built the city, which is even at present called‚Ä¢Cadmca. The city, however, being afterwards increased,Cadmea became the tower of the lower Thebes. The mar≠riage of Cadmus was certainly very illustrious, if, accordingto the assertion os the Greeks, he married Harmony, thedaughter of Venus and Mars. His daughters too wererenowned; for Semele was pregnanf from Jupiter, andlno was made one of the divinities of the sea. But duringthe reign of Cadmus, the Spartans, Cthonios, Hyperenor,Pelorus, and Ud√¶us, were very powerful through hi$means. For Cadmus thought proper to make Echion hisson-in-law, on account of his valour: and with respectto these men, as I cannot gain any farther intelligenceabout them, I must assent to the fable, which fays, thatthey were called Spartans, from the manner in which theywere produced. After the migration of Cadmus to the



Illyrianjj



OF GREECE. u



Wyrians, and Enchelece, a people of Illyria, his sonPolydore reigned. Pentheus the son of Echion waspowerful both through the dignity of his origin, and thefriendship of the king; but as he was an insolent and im≠pious man, he was punished by Bacchus for his impiousbehaviour towards him. Labdacus was the son of Poly≠dore j and Polydore on his death-bed delivered up Lab≠dacus and his kingdom to Nycteus. Other particularsbelonging to this affair I have related in my descriptionpf Sicyoniaj I mean, after what manner Nycteus died,and how the guardianship of his son was committed toLycus the brother of Nycteus,- and all the power of theThebans.



Lycus indeed delivered up the reins of government toLabdacus when he was of age; but Labdacus dying notJong after this, Lycus took Laius the son of Labdacus;into his protection. And while he was again acting thepart of a guardian, Amphion and Zethus collecting toge≠ther an army, invaded the country; and those who werecareful lest the race of Cadmus should become extinct, se≠cretly conveyed Laius away. The sons of Antiope, however,vanquished Lycus in battle, and taking possession of thekingdom, joined the lower city with Cadmea, and calledthe whole Thebes, on account of their alliance with thenymph Thebe, the daughter of Prometheus. Homer, inthe following verses in the Odyssey, confirms the truthof this account:



Tlio' bold in open field, they yet surroundThe town with walls, and mound inject on mound;Here ramparts stood, there tow'rs rose high in air,And there thro' seven wide portals rufli'd the war.



However, he makes no mention of Amphion raising the



walls



zz THE DESCRIPTION



walls by the harmony of his lyre. But Amphion obtainedhis reputation in music, in consequence of having learntfrom the Lydians, through his alliance to Tantalus, thetydian harmony, and inventing three chords in additionto the four which had been‚Äîalready discovered. Theauthor, however, of the verses upon Europa fays, thatAmphion first learned the use of the lyre, from Mercury,and that he drew along stones aud wild beasts by his har≠mony. But Myron the Byzantian, who wrote heroicverses and elegies, fays, that Amphion was the first thatraised an altar to Mercury j and that for this he receiveda lyre from the god- It is also said that Amphion ispunished in Hades for reviling Latona and her sons. Thispunishment of Amphion is mentioned in the poem calledMinyas, and which is composed in common upon Am≠phion and Thamyris.



But after the house of Amphion was destroyed bypestjlence, and Zethus had fallen a victim to grief, in con≠sequence of his wife having slain his son for a certainoffence, then the Thebans gave up the government toJ^aius. And Laius, during his reign, married Jocasta..He received too an oracle from Delphos, which told himthat if he had a son by Jocasta, that son would be themean of his death. In consequence of this he exposedOedipus as soon as he was born: and Oedipus, as soon ashe arrived at manhood, flew his father, and married his mo≠ther. But that Oedipus had no children by his mother, isevident from the following verses of Homer in the Odyssey:



There too Jocasta of a beauteous mienI saw, the fam'd incestuous Tbcban queen;With her own son flic join'd in nuptial bands,Tlio' father's blood imbru'd his murd'rous hands:



 



OF GREECE. 



The gods and men the dire offence detest;The gods with all their furies rend his breast.



For how could the report of his wickedness be imme≠diately abolished, if he had four children byjocasta? Thesechildren indeed were the offspring of Euryganea thedaughter of Hyperphas: and this is evinced by the authorof the verses called Oedipodia. Onasias painted forthe Plat√¶enfes Euryganea, with a sorrowful countenance,on account of t!>e battle between her sens. But Po-lynices, while Oedipus was yet alive and reigned, leftThebes, fearing left the imprecations of his father shouldbe accomplished. In consequence of this he came to Ar-gos, and married the daughter of Adrastus; but after thedeath of Oedipus, returned through the persuasions of hisbrother Eteocles to Thebes. Here, however, a disagree≠ment arising between him and his brother, he was againexiled. After this he requested of Adrastus to furnishhim with an army against his brother. This Adrastuscomplied with: but Polynices lost his army, and the twobrothers engaging each other in a single combat, wereboth slain.



Laodamas the son of Eteocles reigned after his father:but till he was of age the government of the kingdom,and the care of his education was committed to Creonthe son of Menoeccus. "When Laodamas, therefore, wasof a proper age, and took upon him the royal authority,the Argives led a second army against Thebes. TheThebans met this army at Gliffas, and when they came toan engagement, Laodamas flew √Ügialeus the, son ofAdrastus. But the Argives being victorious in this en≠gagement, Laodamas, with the Thebans that followed him,



fled



‚Ä¢ u The description



fled on the following night to the Ulyrians: and the As-gives delivered up Thebes, which they had taken, to Ther≠sander the son of Polyniccs. As a great part, however,of the forces which Agamemnon led against Troy, wan≠dered during their voyage from their destined course, andwere shipwrecked about Mysia, it happened that Ther-sander, who in valour surpassed most of the Greeks in that, war, was slain by Telephus. But the sepulchre of Ther≠sander is in the plains of Caicus* in the city Ehea. This-sepulchre is of stone, and is in that¬´part of the forumwhich is in the open air; in which placej as they fay, theinhabitants perform funeral sacrifices in honour of him.After the death of Thersander, a second fleet being fittedout against Paris and the Trojans, the command of it wasgiven to Peneleus: for Tisamenus the son of Thersanderwas not yet old enough for this purpose. But Peneleusbeing slain by Eurypylus the son of Telephus, they choseTisamenus for their king, who was the son of Thersanderand Demonassa the daughter of Amphiaraus. This ThVmenus was free from the imprecations of Laiusand Oedi-*pus; but Autesion the son of Tisamenus did not escapethem, but was compelled on this account, in compliancewith an oracle, to migrate to the Dorienscs. After thedeparture of Autesion, Damafichthon, the grandson ofPeneleus the son of Opheltes^ was chosen king. Ptolemywas the son of this Damafichthon, and Xanthus of Pto-;lemy, I mean that Xanthus whom Andropompus slew ina single combat, by stratagem, and not in a lawful man≠ner. Afterwards it appeared better to the Thebans tobe governed by many, and not to commit the administra^tion of affairs to one man alone.



CHAP.



OF GREECE. )t¬£



CHAP. VI.



With respect to the prosperous or adverse events ottheir wars, I have found the following to be the mostremarkable particulars. They were vanquished by theAthenians in that battle, in which they assisted the Plst√¶-cnses, who fought for the boundaries of their land. Theywere a second time top vanquished at Plat√¶a by the sameAthenians, in consequence of seeming to prefer the friend≠ship of Xerxes to that of the Greeks. The commonpeople, however, were not culpable in this particular:for at that time an oligarchy wa established among theThebans, and not that form of administration which wasnatural to their country. If therefore the sons of Pisistra-tus had then tyrannized over the Athenians, there can beno doubt but that the Athenians themselves would havebeen attached to the Persians, and on this account wouldhave been culpable as well as the Thebans. Afterwards,however, the Athenians were vanquistied by the Thebanaat Delius, in the country of the Tanagr√¶ans: and Hip≠pocrates the son of Ariphron who commanded the Athe≠nian army was slain, together with a greEt part of his-forces. But the Laced√¶monians, immediately after thedeparture of the Mede, were upon friendly terms withthe Thebans, till the Peloponnesians warred on the Athe≠nians. This war however being finished, and the fleet ofthe Athenians dissolved, the Thebans not long after, to≠gether with the Corinthians, took up arms against theLaced√¶monians: but being vanquished in a battle aboutCorinth, and in Ch√¶ronea, they afterwards obtained at



Lcuctra



t THE DESCRIPTION



Lcuctra a victory the most illustrious of all the Grecia'rfvictories we are acquainted with. Here they put an endto the Decadarchs, or governors of companies, confijling eachof ten men, which the Laced√¶monians had established intheir cities, and to those prefects which they call Har-tno/lai. After this, they carried on for ten years the Pho-cic war, which is called by the Greeks, Sacred. But Ihave already (hewn in my account of the Attic affairs,that the slaughter at Chaeronea was the source of calamityto all Greece: and it was eminently afflictive to theThebans. For they were obliged to place a guard withinthe walls of their city j which, however, after the deathof Philip, and during the reign of Alexander, they droveout of their city. But, for this action, divinity gav.e themtokens of approaching destruction. For, during the timeof the battle at Leuctra, the spiders in the temple of CeresThesmophoros wove white webs about the doors; butwhen Alexander and the Macedonians attacked their do≠minions, their webs were found to be black. It is alsosaid, that divinity rained ashes on the Attic land, in theyear prior to that in which Sylla led an army against theAthenians, and by this means caused them to suffer in suchan eminent degree.



CHAP. VII.



ThE Thebans, therefore, being then driven from theircountry by Alexander, fled to Athens, and were after≠wards restored to it by Caflander the son of Antipater.Indeed the Athenians assisted the Thebans with the greatest



OF GREECE. 



gfeatest alacrity in restoring Thebes to its pristine state;and they were joined in this by the Messenians and Mega-lopolitans. But it appears to me that Cassander rebuiltThebes, principally through his hatred of Alexander:for he endeavoured totally to destroy all his house. Thushe delivered up Olympias the mother of Alexander to bestoned to death, by those Macedonians who violently hatedher, and destroyed by poison Hercules the son of Alex≠ander by Barfina, and Alexander his son by Roxana. Hedid not, however, depart rejoicing from the present life;for he was seized with a dropsy, through which he wasdevoured by vermin. Of his sons, too, the eldest, Philip,not long after he began his reign, was attacked with atabid disease. Antipater who succeeded him slew hismotheT Thessalonice, who was the daughter of Philip theson of Amyntas by Nicafipolis. His reason for commit≠ting this parricide, was her extreme fondness of Alexander,the youngest of Antipater's sons. Alexander, however,caHing to his assistance Demetrius the son of Antigonus,stew Antipater, and thus revenged the murder of hismother.



Some god, therefore, deservedly punished Cassanderfor his guilty conduct. However, all the ancient inclo≠sure os Thebes was restored to the Thebans by Cassander.But it was requisite, that they should afterwards taste ofthe greatest evils. * For when Mithidrates warred on theRomans, the Thebans assisted him in this war, for no otherreason, as it appears to me, than their friendstiip to theAthenians. But when Sylla led his army into Bceotia,the Thebans were terrified, and, immediately changingtheir intentions, joined themselves to the Romans. Sylla,however, did not lay aside his anger against them, but in-



Vok. III. C vented



 THE DESCRIPTION



vented other things destructive to their prosperity, ant!laid a fine on half their land; for which conduct thiswas his pretext: "When the war against Mithidratescommenced, Sylla was in great want of money. Hence,he collected together the sacred offerings from Olympiaand Epidarus; and from the temple of the DelphicApollo, all that was left by the Phoccnses. This treasurehe distributed among his .soldiers. But to the gods, in≠stead of the riches which he had taken from them, hegave the half of the Theban land. The Romans, how≠ever, afterwards restored to the Thebans the land whichhad been taken from them. But in other respects theywere reduced by Sylla to a very calamitous condition.And even at present the lower city is entirely desolate,except the temples of the gods : but the Thebans dwell intheir tower, which is no longer called Cadmea.



CHAP. VIII.



When you have passed over the Asopus, and haveproceeded to about the distance of ten stadia from thecity, you will arrive at the ruins of Potni√¶, among whichthere is a grove of Ceres and Proserpine. The statuesnear the river are called by the inhabitants the goddessesPotnije. At stated times they perform other establishedceremonies in honour of these, and send sucking pigsinto buildings which they call Megara. These pigs, theyfay, are seen at Dodona on the summer of the followingyear: which report may perhaps be credited by some.There is here too a temple of Bacchus Aigobalas, or the



piercer



OF GREECE. ip



[tierce? of goats. For it once happened, that while the in≠habitants of this place were sacrificing, they became sooutrageous through intoxication, that they flew the priestof Bacchus. As a punishment for this action, they wereafflicted with a pestilent disease; and at the same timewere ordered by the Delphic Oracle to sacrifice to Bacchusa boy in the flower of his youth. However, not manyyears after this, they fay, that the god changed the sa≠crifice of a boy for that os a goat. Among the Potni√¶,too, there is a well; and they report, that the horseswhich are natives of Potnix become mad by drinking thiswater. As you go from hence to Thebes, you will feeon the right hand of the road an inclosure, not very large,and in it certain pillars. They are of opinion that theearth opened in this place to Amphiaraus; and they fay,that birds will not sit on these pillars, nor grafs grow,nor any tame or savage animal feed in this place.



But the Thebans, in the inclosure of their ancientwall, have seven gates, which remain even at present. I haveheard that one of these gates was called Electra, fromElectra, the sister of Cadmus, and another Prcet√¶, fromPr≈ìtus, a native of this place. I have not, however, beenable to find at what time this Pr≈ìtus lived. They callthe third gate Neita, because Amphion is said to have in≠vented that chord in a lyre called Netr, before these gates.I have also heard, that the son of Zethus, the brother ofAmphion, was called Neis; and that from him this gatewas denominated Neida. They denominate the gateCren√¶ from a fountain $ but the gate Hypiste, from itsproximity to the temple of Jupiter the higheji. Besidesthese gates there is another gate which is called Ogygia;and the last gate is denominated Omolois. It appears toC  me,



 THE DESCRIPTION



me, that this last name is the most recent of all, andOgygia the most ancient. They fay, too, that the gateOmolois was thus denominated on the following account:When the Thebans were vanquished by the Argives nearGlifas, many of them fled, together with Laodamas theson of Eteocles. Of these, one part was unwilling totake refuge among the Illyrians, but turning towards theThessalians, took up their residence in Omoloe, which isthe most fertile and well watered mountain of all thatTheflaly contains. Afterwards, being recalled to theirnative country by Therfander the son of Polynices, theycalled the gate through which they entered into the city,Omolois, from the mountain Omoloe. But as you comefrom Plat√¶a, you will enter Thebes through the gatecalled Electra. They fay, that Capaneus the son of Hip-ponous was struck with lightning at this gate, as he wasattacking the walls with more vehemence than usual.



CHAP. IX.



ThIS war, indeed, which the Argives waged, deserves,in my opinion, to be celebrated beyond all the wars ofthe Greeks, during the heroic ages, as they are called.For the war of the Eleufinians against the other Athenians,and in like manner of the Thebans against the Miny√¶,almost after one engagement, terminated in concord, andtreaties of peace. But the army of the Argives cameinto the middle of Bceotia, from the middle of Peleponne-sus; and Adrastus collected together his allied forces fromArcadia, and from the Messenians. In a similar man≠ner,



 



OF GREECE. 



ncr, mercenary troops were sent to the Thebans from thePhocenses, and by the Phlegyians from Minyas. An en≠gagement therefore taking place nearjfmenus,the Thebanswere vanquished, and fled within their walls. But as thePeloponnefians were unacquainted with the art of be≠sieging cities, and attacked the walls of Thebes moreunder the influence of anger than the direction of science,the Thebans flew many of them from their walls, andafterwards leaving their city, by a sudden incursion brokethe enemy's ranks, and cut to pieces the whole army ex≠cept Adrastiis. This victory however cost the Thebansdear: and hence, victories obtained with a great loss arecalled Cadmean victories. Not many years after this,those whom the Greeks call Epigonoi, or such as are ofposterior origin, with Thersander for their leader, warredon Thebes. But it is evident, that not only the Argives,Meflenians, and Arcadians, joined themselves to theirstandards, but that the Corinthians and Megarenses cameto their assistance. The Thebans however were assistedby the cities bordering on Thebes; and a sharp engage≠ment took place between the two armies near Glisas. Ofthe Thebans, many after they were vanquished fled withLaodamas, and the rest fortified themselves in their city.And this is the war which is celebrated in verse. Ca-l√¶nus, making mention of these verses, fays that they werecomposed by Homer j and many celebrated persons are ofthe fame opinion. Indeed, I consider these verses as next inexcellence to the Iliad and Odyssey. And thus much con≠cerning the war, which the Argives and Thebans wagedfor the fake of the sons of Oedipus,



CHAP.



THE DESCRIPTION



CHAP. X.



Not far from the gates there is a common sepulchreof those who fell in the engagement against Alexanderand the Macedonians. Near it they shew a place, in whichthey say (if it may be believed) the teeth of the dragonwhich was slain by Cadmus by the fountain were sown,and became men. There is a hill on the right hand ofthe gates, which is sacred to Apollo; and both the hilland the god are called Ismenios, from the river Ismenusslowing near this place. The first stone statues whichpresent themselves to the view on entering the city, arethose of Minerva and Mercury, whom they call Pronaoiyor belonging to vestibules. That of Mercury was made byPhidias, and that of Minerva by Scopas. After this thereis a temple, which contains a statue equal in magnitudeto that of the Branchidre, and in no respect different in itsform. Whoever fees one of these statues, and knows whomit was made by, will, on beholding the other, perceive,without any great skill, that its artificer was Canachus.This statue, however, belonging to the Branchidre is madeof brass, but this of Apollo Ismenios of cedar. In the fameplace too there is a stone, upon which, they fay, Manto thedaughter of Tiresias fat. This stone is placed before thevestibule of the temple, and is called at present the Jeai ofManto.



On the right hand of the temple there are stone statues,which they fay are images of Heniochc and Pyrrha thedaughters of Creon, who reigned while he was the



guardian



OF GREECE. 



guardian of Laodamas the son of Eteocles. I know, too,that at present the Thebans choose as the annual priest ofApollo Ismenios, a boy illustrious for his origin, and ofgreat beauty and strength. This boy is called Daphnophoros,because ht is crowned -with laurel. But I am not certainwhether all the boys that are crowned with laurel dedi≠cate a brazen tripod to Apollo. It appears to me, thatall are not obliged to do this by law; for I did not feemany tripods dedicated here. The wealthier fort of theseboys however dedicate tripods: and among these, thatwhich Amphitryon dedicated,withHercules on it crownedwith laurel, is the most illustrious, both for its antiquityand the renowH of the person by whom it was sent as anoffering. Beyond this temple of Ismenian Apollo you willsee a fountain, which they say is sacred to Mars: andthey add, that a dragon is stationed here by Mars asthe guardian of the fountain. Near this is the tomb ofCaanthus, who they fay was the brother of Melia, andthe son of Ocean ; and who was sent by his father to seekhis sister that was forcibly taken away. But when hesound that (he was in the power of Apollo, and that in con≠sequence of this he was not able to take her away, he hadthe boldness to set on fire the grove- of Apollo, whichthey call Ismenion; and for this action, as the Thebansfay, the god flew him with his arrows. They fay, too, thatApollo had two sons by Melia, Tenerus and Ismenius;and that Apollo endowed Tenerus with a prophetic power,but the river was denominated from Ismenius. However,prior to the birth of Ismenius this river was calledLadoa.



CHAF.



THE DESCRIPTION



CHAP. XI.



On the left hand of the gate which  called Electra,are the ruins of a house which they say was inhabited byAmphitryon when he fled from Tiryntha, on account ofthe death of Electryon. The bed-chamber of Alcmeneis yet to be seen among these ruins. They fay, that thisbed-chamber was built for Amphitryon by Trophoniusand Agamedes ; and that the following epigram was onceinscribed on it: Amphitryon, when he designed to marryAlcmene, chose this for his bed-chamber, which wasmade by Ancafius, Trophonius, and Agamedes. The The-bans, too, shew the sepulchre of the children of Hercule¬´by Megara: but the particulars which they relate con≠cerning their death, do not in any respect correspond withthose given by Stesichorus Himereus and Panyasis in theirpoems. The Thebans farther add, that Hercules, throughhis insanity, would have slain Amphitryon himself, butthat before he could accomplish this he fell asleep throughthe blow of a stone; and that this stone was thrown byMinerva, whom they call Sophronijler, or tht restrainer. liithis place too there are images, of women on a pillar,whose form is obscured through age. These images theThebans call Pharmakides, or -witches; and they fay, thatthey were sent by Juno in order to prevent Alcmene frombeing delivered. However, Istoris the daughter ofTiresiasdeceived them while they were acting in this manner byAlcmene, by the following means; Fjom a place whenceshe could easily be heard by the witches, she cried out witha loud voice, that Alcmene was delivered; and in conse≠quence



 



OF GREECE. aS



quence of their being deceived in this manner, Alcmenewas in reality delivered.



There is a temple here of Hercules with a stone statue,which they call Promachos, or the defender: and this wasmade by the Thebans, Xenocratus and Eubius. But theThebans are of opinion, that the ancient wooden statuein this place was made by D√¶dalus ; and it appears to me,that this was really the cafe. They fay that D√¶dalus de≠dicated this statue on account of the benevolent inter≠position of divinity in his favour. For when he had con≠structed for himself and his son Icarus a small ship, andhad discovered the use of sails, which were unknown be≠fore, so that he was able, in consequence of being drivenby a prosperous wind, to outstrip the vessel of Minos, hehimself escaped in safety; but they say that Icarus, beingunskilled in the art of piloting the fliip, overturned it,and was by this means swallowed up by the waves, anddriven to an island of Pergamus, the name of which isat present unknown. They add, that Hercules metwith the dead body, and, knowing it, buried it, whereeven now there is a heap of earth not very large, in thepromontory which extends to the √Ügean sea. But theisland and the sea about it were denominated from Icarus,In the roof of this temple Praxiteles carved for the The-rbans many of the twelve labours of Hercules. What hehas omitted, are the birds called Stymphaljdes, and thepurification of the Elean land: and instead of these hehas represented the wrestling of Hercules with Ant√¶us,But Thrasybulus the son of Lycus, and those Athenians,who together with him dissolved the oppressive govern≠ment of the thirty tyrants (for they descended from Thebesfor this purposes dedicated in the temple os Hercules



colossal



THE DESCRIPTION



colossal statues of Minerva and Hercules, of Pentelicanstone, and made by Alcamenes. A gymnafium and sta≠dium too of Hercules are contiguous to this temple. Butabove the stone Sophronister there is an altar of Apollo,who is called Spondios: and this altar is raised from theasties of victims. Divination from omens is here esta≠blished ; which I know the Smyrn√¶ans use beyond all theGreeks. For in the outward inclosure of their walls theyhave a temple, raised for the purpose of receiving omens.



J. HE Thebans too, in ancient times, sacrificed bulls toApollo Polios, or the hoary. But it once happened in thisfestival, that when the time for slaying the victim was atfiand. and those that were sent for the bull did notcome as they were expected, the sacrificers met witha car drawn bv two oxen, one of which they sacri≠ficed to the gcd; and from this circumstance they after≠wards thought proper to sacrifice labouring oxen. Thefollowing circumstance likewise is related by the Thebans:When Cadmus came from the Delphi to Phocis, he fol≠lowed an ox as his guide. This ox was bought of theherdsmen of Pelagos, and hail on each of its fides a whitespot resembling the full moon. It was necessary, there≠fore, that Cadmus and his army, by the command of anoracle, should fix their residence in that place in whichshe ox when weary laid itself down to rest. This placethe Thebans exhibit even now : and in it there is an altar,jn the open air, of Minerva, and a statue, which they fay



CHAP. XII.



 



were



OF GREECE.



were dedicated by Cadmus. Hence their opinion, whoassert that the Cadmus who came to Thebes was auEgyptian, and not a Ph≈ìnician, may be confuted by thevery name given to this statue of Minerva: for this god≠dess is called Siga in the Ph≈ìnician, and not Sais, as in.the Egyptian tongue.



The Thebans too farther report, that where the forumof the tower now stands, the house of Cadmus formerlystood. Hence, they shew the ruins of the bed-chambersof Harmonia and Semele, into which last, even at present,men are not permitted to enter. According to the Greeks,the Muses celebrated the nuptials of Harmonia with songs:and there is a place in the forum here, where they fay thegoddesses fang. It is also said, that together with thethunder which descended into the chamber of Semele, apiece of wood fell from heaven, which Polydorus adornedwith brass, and called Cadmean Bacchus. Near this thereis a statue of Bacchus, which Onassimedes made entirelyof brass; for the statue of Cadmus was made by the sonsof Praxiteles. Here too there is a statue of Pronomus thepiper, who allured many by his harmony. Before histime there were different pipes, for the Dorian, Lydian,and Phrygian measures; but he sirjl invented pipes adapted toevery kind of harmony, and was the first that played all thedifferent measures at once on one pipe. It is alto said, that hewonderfully delighted the spectators in the theatres, bythe gesticulations of his face, and the motion of his wholebody. His songs are yet extant which he composed forthe Chalcidenses by the Euripus, in honour of Delos. TheThebans therefore have here placed a statue of this Pro-pomus, and of Epaminondas the son of Polymnis.



CHAP.



 THE DESCRIPTION



CHAP. XIII.



ThE ancestors indeed of Epaminondas were very illus≠trious; but his father, with respect to possessions, was butof the middle rank among the Thebans. However, hetook care to have his son accurately instructed in all thedisciplines belonging to his country: and Epaminondashimself, when he was but a youth, betook himself to Lysisthe Tarentine, who was skilled in the doctrine of Pytha≠goras the Samian. But in the war which the Laced√¶≠monians waged with the Mantinenses, Epaminondas issaid to have been sent with other Thebans to the aid ofthe Laced√¶monians. In this battle he saved Pelopidas,who, through a great wound which he received, was onthe very brink of destruction; and afterwards being sentas an ambassador to Sparta, when the Laced√¶monians de≠creed to establish that peace which was called the peaceof Antalcidas, Agesilaus asked him whether the Thebanshad suffered the Bceotians in their respective cities toswear to the peace. To this interrogation Epaminondasreplied, By no means, O Spartan, till we find that thecities which border on your dominions have sworn. Butas soon as the war between the Laced√¶monians and The-,bans commenced, and the Laced√¶monians, trusting bothto their own power and that of their allies, pressed verymuch on the Thebans, Epaminondas with a part of theTheban army fixed his camps above the marsh Cephissis,as he perceived that in this part the Peloponnesians weredisposed to make an attack. Cleombrotus, however, king



OF GREECE. 



of the Laced√¶monians, turned his forces to Ambryssusin the land of the Phocenses; and having slain Ch√¶reaswho guarded the passages in these parts, he penetratedas far as to Leuctra in B≈ìotia. But in this place divi≠nity gave certain portentous signs in common to Cleom-brotus and the Laced√¶monians. For it was usual withthe Spartan kings, when they marched to battle, to takealong with them lheep, that they might sacrifice to thegods before the engagement began. The leaders of theseflieep were goats, which the shepherds call Cateiadai, orleaders of the flock. At that time, therefore, certain wolvesrushed on the shepherd, and slew the goats that were theleaders of the flock, but did not in any respect injurethe sheep.



It is also sajd, that the wrath of divinity was enkindledagainst the Laced√¶monians, through the daughters ofScedasus. For when Scedasus dwelt about Leuctra, hehad two daughters, Molpia and Hippo. These, when theywere in the flower of their age, were ravished by the Lace≠d√¶monians, Parathemidas, Phrudarchidas, and Parthenius.The virgins, indignantly bearing this injurious treatment,strangled themselves to death. And Scedasus when hecame to Laced√¶mon, and could obtain no recompensefrom the Spartans,- flew himself. But then Epaminondasperformed funeral rites to Scedasus and his daughters,and solemnly declared, that he took up arms, not morefor the safety of the Thebans, than for the fake of re≠venging the injuries which they had sustained. Theepinion, however, of some of the B≈ìotian commanders onthis subject did not correspond with that of Epaminondas:for though Malgis and Xenocrates were of opinion, thatwar should be denounced against the Laced√¶monians with



 all



% the description



all possible celerity, yet Damoclidas, Damophilus, aridSimangelus thought this was by no means proper; but ex-¬´horted the Thebans to fend away their wives and childrento Attica, and prepare themselves for a siege. And afterthis manner six of them varied in opinion. But whenthe seventh of the B≈ìotian chiefs, who guarded the pas≠sages at Cith√¶ron, and whose name was Branchyllides,voted in favour of the opinion of Epaminondas, the The≠bans determined to try the fortune of war.



However, several of the B≈ìotians were suspected byEpaminondas, particularly the Thespians. Fearing there≠fore some treachery might ensue, he permitted all thatwere willing to leave the camps, and return home: andin consequence of this permission, the Thespians, andthe other B≈ìotians, that were not attached to the in≠terests of the Thebans, departed from the army. But assoon as an engagement took place, the allies of the Lace≠d√¶monians, who previous to this were disaffected towardsthem, now openly declared their hatred: for they wereunwilling to remain in their places, and turned their backswhen attacked by the enemy. The battle however betweenthe Laced√¶monians and Thebans was equal; for the formerwere incited by their pristine skill in warlike affairs, and thefear of destroying the dignity of Sparta; but the hitter bythe danger which they saw hung over their country, wivesand children. But when, in the end, many principal per≠sons among the Laced√¶monians and king Cleombrotushimself fell, necessity compelled the Laced√¶monians,though in such calamitous circumstances, to maintain theirground; for it appeared to them to be a most shamefulcircumstance, to leave the dead body of their king in thepower of the enemy. Indeed the Thebans gained in this



battle



OF GREECE. 



battle the most illustrious victory which one Grecian na≠tion ever obtained over another. On the following daythe Laced√¶monians sent heralds to the Thebans, and de≠sired they might be permitted to bury their dead. Epami-nondas, however, who knew that the Laced√¶monians al≠ways concealed their calamities, answered, that he wouldfirst of all permit their allies to take away their dead, andthen the Laced√¶monians to bury their own people. Assome of the allies, therefore, had not any dead to takeaway, and others had but a few, the Spartans were obligedto confess that the greatest loss was of their own people.In this engagement, of the Thebans and such B≈ìotians asremained, no more than forty-seven fell; but of the Lace≠d√¶monians above a thousand.



CHAP. XIV.



After this battle Epaminondas permitted the rest ofthe Peloponnesians to return home, but kept the Laced√¶≠monians shut up at Leuctra. But when he heard thatthe Spartans collected themselves together from all theircities in order to assist their own people at Leuctra, hesuffered them to depart on certain conditions, assertingthat it was much better to transfer the war from B≈ìotia toLaced√¶monia. The Thespians, because they suspectedthe Thebans on account of their ancient hatred towardsthem, and their present good fortune, thought proper toleave their city, and fly to Cercssus. This Cercssus is afortified town belonging to the Thespians, into whichthey formerly betook themselves when they were attacked



 by



t THE DESCRIPTION



by the Thessalians. But at that time the Thessalians, beingfrustrated in their attempts to take Ceressus, sent to Del-phos in order to consult the god, and received the follow≠ing oracle: "Shady Leuctra and the Alesian soil are theobjects of my care. My attention likewise is directed tothe sorrowful daughters of Scedasus. For on their accounta lamentable war will arise. Nor shall any man surviveto relate it, till the Dores shall lose a beautiful youngvirgin, when her fatal hour is arrived: for then, but nototherwise, Ceressus may be taken." Epaminondas, there≠fore, having taken Ceressus, and the Thespians who hadfled thither for refuge being expelled, turned his attentionto the affairs of Peloponnesus, the Arcadians with greatalacrity calling upon him for this purpose.



On his first arrival therefore among the Pelopdnne-sians, he voluntarily joined himself to the Argives, as hisassociates in war; brought back the Mantinenfes to theirancient city, who were dispersed in towns about Agesi-polis; and persuaded the Arcadians to destroy their smalltowns, which, as they were unfortified, might easily betaken, and to assemble together in one city which hebuilt for them, and which is even at present called Mega≠lopolis. When the time of his command too was expired,and which to continue any longer was a capital offence,he despised the law by which this custom was established,as being then unseasonable, retained his command, andmarched with an army to Sparta: but finding that Agesi-laus was not willing to come to an engagement, he turnedhis attention to the restoration of Meffene. Hence, Epa≠minondas was the restorer of those Messenians that existat present; the particulars of which affair I have relatedin my Messenics. In the mean time, the Theban allies



dispersing



OF GREECE. 



dispersing themselves over the Laconic land,greatly injuredit by their depredations; and this induced Epaminondasto lead back his army to B≈ìotia. When therefore hedrew near to Lech√¶us, and was about to pass throughthe difficult and narrow defiles, Iphicrates the son ofTimotheus met him with troops armed with shields likea half moon, and witk the other forces of the Athenians,which he led against the Thebans. These Epaminondasattacked, and put to flight} and pursuing them as far asto the walls of Athens, when he found that Iphicrateswould not suffer the Athenians t fight, led back his armyto Thebes. Here he was tried for continuing his B≈ìotiangovernment after the expiration of the limited time; bulnot one of the judges would pass sentence upon him.



CHAP. XV.



AFTERWARDS, when Alexander who reigned iaThessaly imprisoned Pelopidas (who came to. him relyingon his private benevolence, and on the friendship of theThebans in common), that he might punish his perfidyand insolence, the Thebans immediately marched an armyagainst Alexander, and chose Cleomenes for the leader ofthis expedition; at the fame time subjecting the B≈ìotiangovernor, who at that time presided over the army, to hiscommand. Epaminondas upon this occasion was stationedamong the Common soldiers. The army having arrived ajj.the narrow defiles of the Thermopyl√¶, was unexpect^djjyattacked by Alexander in those parts most diffic^l^c^-ac≠cess; and in consequence of this, the forces despajrinff atVo^. III. D W&h



\



 THE DESCRIPTION



success chose Epaminondas for their general, with thefree consent of the B≈ìotian pr√¶fects. Alexander, there≠fore, perceiving that the command was transferred toEpaminondas, had not the boldness to come to an engage≠ment, and voluntarily dismissed Pclopidas. 'But duringthe absence of Epaminondas, the Thebans drove the Or-chomenians from their country. This violence Epami≠nondas bore indignantly, and said that the Thebans wouldhot have dared to act in this manner if he had beenpresent.



In the mean time, as no other B≈ìotian governor waschosen, Epaminondas led his army again to Peloponnesus,and vanquished the Laced√¶monians near Lech√¶us; andtogether with them the Pelienenscs from among theAchaians, and of the Athenians, those which had beenled by Chabr'as. It w as an established custom among theThebuns to take a ransom for their prisoners, except suchas were B≈ìotians ‚Ä¢, for these they condemned to death.But Epaminondas having taken a small city of the Sicyo-nians called Fh≈ìbia, and which contained the greatestpanel the B≈ìotian exiles, enfranchised them on their pay≠ing down a certain sum of money ; at the same time call≠ing them by the names of unlerent countries, just as theycame into his mind. However, when he came to Man-tinea with his army, and was then victorious, he was(lain by an nthenian: and among the Athenians in apicture of an equestrian battle, a man is represented slay≠ing Epaminondas, and the writing under him shews thathe is GrylluS the son of Xenophon. This was the Xeno-phon that attended Cyrus in his expedition against Arta-xerxes, and who led the Greeks back again to the sea.On the statue of Epaminondas elegies are inscribed, which



assert,



tot GkEfccE. n



assert, among other things, that Mcssene was restored byhim, and that he gave liberty to the Greeks. These elegic*are as follow:



Our counsels Sparta's glory have destroy'd.Through these, Mcssene (hall in time receiveOffspring august. Through these, with Theban armiEnviron'd, Megalopolis is crown'd,And its own laws Greece unrestrain'd enjoys.



And such arc the particulars respecting the renown oFEpaminondas.



Chap, xvl



NoT far from this statue of Epaminondas there is atemple of Ammon. The statue in this temple was made byCalamis, and dedicated by Pindar, who also sent hymns inhonour of Ammon to the Ammonians in Libya. At pre≠sent there is a hymn composed by Pindar, inscribed on atriangular pillar, near the altar which Ptolemy the son ofLagus dedicated to Ammon. After this temple the Thebanshave a building which is called the divining towtr of Tire-sias: and near it there is a temple of Fortune. The statueof the goddess in this temple holds an infant Plutus : andthe Thebans fay, that the hands and face of this statuewere made by the Athenian Xenophon, but the otherparts by Callistonicus a Theban. It certainly was a sa≠gacious device to place Plutus in the hands of Fortune, asif flic was his mother or nurse. Nor was the sagacity ofCephisodotus less, who made for the Athenians Peaceholding Plutus. The Thebans too have wooden statues‚Ä¢f Venus so ancient, that they are said to have been dedi-



D  cated



 THE DESCRIPTION



cated by Harmonia. These were made front the beak¬ªof the ships of Cadmus. One of these they call CtlejlialVenus, the second Popular, and the third Apojlrophia.



Harmonia gave these names to Venus; the epithet Ce≠lestial, signifying pure love, and that which is liberatedfrom the desire of body; the epithet Popular, alluding tovenereal congress; and Apojlrophia, signifying that thisgoddess turns the race of men from unlawful desire andimpious coition. For Harmonia knew, that many impiousactions both among the Barbarians and Greeks were com≠mitted through intemperate desire; such as afterwards werecelebrated in verse, of the mother of Adonis, of Ph√¶dra .the daughter of Minos, and of the Thracian Tereus. Butthey fay that' the temple of Ceres Thesmophoros wasonce the house of Cadmus and his posterity. The statueof Ceres in this temple is only apparent as far as to thebreast. Brazen shields are fixed in this place, which theyfay belonged to the Laced√¶monian noblemen that fell inthe b.-rtle at Leuctrai Near the gates called Proet√¶ thereis a theatre: and very near the theatre there is a templeof Lysian Bacchus. For u lien formerly the Thracians ledaway many captives from the Thebans, Bacchus freedthem from their bond:-, when they came near the bordersof the Haliartians, and enabled them to slay the Thra≠cians when oppress with sleep.  he Thebans, too, faythat the other statue which is in this temple is the statueof f-emele. Once every year, on stated days, they openthis temple. Here likewise there are ruins of the houseof Lycus, and a sepulchre of Semele; for it is not thesepulchre of Alcmene; as, according to report, she waschanged after her death into a stone. For the Thebans‚Ä¢ do not give the fame account of her as the Megarenses.



The



OF GREECE. 



The Greeks, too, in other relations differ very much fromeach other. The Thcbans have besides, in this place, mo≠numents of the children of Amphion, the male beingapart from the female offspring.



CHAP. XVII.



Near these is the temple of Diana Eucleia, or the re≠nowned : and the statue of the goddess in it was made byScopas. They fay that the daughters of Antipcenus, An-droclea and Alcida, are buried in this temple. For whenthe Thebans led by Hercules were about to engage withthe Orchomenians, they were told by an oracle, that thearmy would be victorious out of which a citizen of themost illustrious birth should destroy himself. Antipcenus,therefore, was the chief of all his fellow citizens with re≠spect to the splendor of his origin; but he could not bepersuaded to kill himself for the good of his country. Hisdaughters, however, cheerfully devoted themselves for theaccomplishment of this end: and for this they were pub≠licly honoured. Before this temple of Diana Eucleia thereis a lion of stone, which they fay was dedicated by Her-,cules after he had vanquished the Orchomenians, andtheir king Erg'tnus the son of Clymenus. Near this templethere is a statue of Boedromian Apollo, and a statue ofJudicial Mercury, which was dedicated by Pindar. Thefuneral pile of the children of Amphion is about half astadium distant from their sepulchres. The ashes yet re≠main upon this funeral pile. Near the statue too of Amphi≠tryon there are two stone statues of Minerva, who is calledD  Zostcria,



¬´ THE DESCRIPTION



Zosteria. For Amphitryon is said to have armed himselfin this place, when he was on the point of engaging withthe Eub≈ìenses and Chalcodon. But to put on armour,was called by the ancients begirding. For when Homermakes the zone of Agamemnon similar to that of Mars,they fay, that he means by this word the apparatus ofhis armour.



There is a common sepulchre here of Zethus and Am-phion, which is not large, and is nothing more than aiieap of earth. The inhabitants of Tithorea among the‚Ä¢Fhocenses are desirous of carrying away earth from thistomb, and this wlien the fun is in Taurus. For then, ifihtey add the earth taken away from this tomb to thesepulchre of Antiope, their own land becomes more pro≠lific, but the contrary happens to that of the Thebans.And on this account the Thebans at that time carefullyguard the sepulchre. But these cities are persuaded thatthis vi Uj be the cafe from the oracles of Bacis; for thefollowfig lines are found among these oracles: "Whenthe Tuhorenses shall offer libations, prayers, and atone-p'Tments to Amphion and Zethus, a bull being heated bythe-illustrious power of the fun, then beware of a maladyof no trifling nature, which shall infest the city. For thefruits in the land shall perish, if you suffer any of yourearth to be taken away, and placed on the sepulchre ofJ?hocus." But Bacis calls it the monument of Phocus,because Dirce die wife of Lycus honoured Bacchus aboveall the divinities; and when she suffered that dire punish≠ment from Amphion and Zethus, Bacchus was indignantvith Antiope; and, as the punishments of the gods arealways transcendent, afflicted her with madness, and bythis means caused her to wander over all Greece. Phocus



however,



OF GREECE. 



however, the son of Ornytion, and the grandson of Sisy≠phus, freed her from her insanity, and married her: andon this account a sepulchre was built in common for An-tiope and Phocus. The rude stones which arc scatteredabout the tomb of Amphion, are said to be the verystones which followed the harmony of his lyre. It is alsosaid of Orpheus, that wild beasts followed him when heplayed on his harp.



CHAP. XVIII.



THERE is a road from Thebes to Chalcis, near thegates called Proet√¶. In tha public part of this roadthere is a sepulchre of Melanippus, who was the most ex≠cellent warrior of all the Thcbans, arid who, when theArgives besieged Thebes, slew Tydeus, and Mecisteus thebrother of Adrastus: but he himself is said to have beenflain by Amphiaraus. There are three rude stones nearthis sepulchre. But those that relate the antiquities of theTheban fay that Tydeus is interred here, and that hewas buried by Maion. In proof of this they cite the fol≠lowing verse from the Iliad:



"Tydeus, who buried lies in Theban earth."



After this are the sepulchres of the children of Ocdipus.I have not, indeed, beheld the sacred rkes which are per≠formed in honour of these, but I can credit the reports ofthose that have seen them. For the Thebans fay, thatthey perform funeral sacrifices to others that are calledheroes, and to the children of Ocdipus; and that whilefhey are sacrificing to these, both the llame, and the smokeD  produced



o THE DESCRIPTION



produced by the flame, become divided into two parts. Iam induced to believe that this account is true, from whatI have seen elsewhere. For in Mysia above Caicus there isa small city which is called Pioniae. They fay that thiscity was built by Pionis, who was one of the posterity ofHercules. While they are celebrating his funeral rites, asmoke rises spontaneously from the sepulchre: and of thisI have been a spectator The Thebans too exhibit thesepulchre of Tiresias, which is at the distance of abouttwenty stadia from the sepulchre of the sons of Oedipus.But they acknowledge that Tiresias died in Haliartia : theylikewise own that the sepulchre which they shew of himis merely honorary. The Thebans too have a tomb ofHector the son of Priam, near the fountain which is calledOeoi podia. For they fay that his bones were broughthither from Troy, in consequence of the following oracle:"Thebans, who inhabit the city of Cadmus, if you wish toreside in your country, blest with the posseflion of blame≠less wealth, bring the bones of Hector the son of Priaminto your dominions from Asia, and reverence the heroagreeably to the mandate of Jupiter." But the fountainOedipodia was thus denominated, because Oedipus washedoff in it the blood occasioned by the murder of his father.Near this fountain is the sepulchre of Asphodicus, who,according to the Thebans, flew Parthenop√¶us the son ofTalaus in an engagement with the Argives. For theverses in the Thebaid, respecting the death of Partheno≠p√¶us, assert that he was slain by Periclymenus.



CHAP,



OF GREECE. *



CHAP- XIX.



In this fame public road too there is a place calledTeumeflus, where they fay Europa was concealed by Juspiter. It is likewise said of the Teumeflian fox, that it wasnourished by Bacchus for the purpose of destroying theThebans; and that when it was on the point of being takenby that dog which Diana gave to Procris the daughter ofErechtheus, both the dog and the fox were changed intostones. There is also a temple of Minerva Telchinia inTeumeflus; but it has not a statue of the goddess. Itmay be conjectured, that the goddess was thus denomi≠nated from the Telchinians, who formerly dwelt in Cy≠prus; for it is probable that a part of them, when theycame among the B≈ìotians, dedicated this temple of Mi≠nerva Telchinia. On proceeding from Teumeflus, on theleft hand, and to the distance of about seven stadia, you willarrive at the ruins of Glifas. Opposite to these there is asepulchre of earth not very large, which can hardly beseen by reason of the trees which surround it, some ofwhich are wild, and others have been raised by art. Thosethat followed √Ügialeus the son of Adrastus to the Thebanwar, the Argive nobles, and among them Promachus theson of Parthenopaeu, are buried here. But that there is asepulchre of √Ügialeus in Pagae, I have before evinced inmy account of the Megarensian affairs. On proceedingin a straight line from Thebes to Glifas, you will fee aplace surrounded with chosen stones, which the Thebanscall the head of the serpent. They say that a certain serpent



raised



* THE DESCRIPTION



raised its head in this place out of a cavern, and that Tire-Cas, who happened to come hither at that time, flew itwith his sword, which occasioned the place to be thusdenominated. Above GlICis there is a mountain whichis called Supreme; and in it there is a temple with a statuees Jupiter the Supreme. But the torrent which is in thisplace they call Thennodon. On turning towards Teumef-(us, and into the road which leads to Chalcis, you will sec asepulchre of Chalcodon, who was (lain by. Amphitryon inthe battle between the Thebans and Eub≈ìenses. Afterthis you will perceive the ruins of the cities Harmas and.Mycaleflus. The former of these was thus denominated,according to the Tanagr√¶ans, because Amphiaraus disap≠peared with his chariot in this place, and not in that menrtioned by the Thebans. But it is acknowledged both by,the Tanagr√¶ans and Thebans, that Mycaleflus was socalled, because the ox which was the guide of Cadmusand hre associates, in their journey to Thebes, lowed there.After what manner too Mycaleflus came to be a desolateplace, I have Ihewn in my; account of the Athenianaihnrs.



In that part of Mycaleflus which borders on the sea,there is a temple of Mycale≈ían. Ceres. They fay thatthis is opened and shut again every night by Hercules iand'that Hercules is one of those that arc called the Id.eiDactyli. The following wonderful circumstance happenshere: They place before the feet of the statue of Ceres,all the fruit which autumn produces: and this remains en≠tire through the whole year. Proceeding to a little dis≠tance from that part of the Euripus which divides Eubcea.from the borders of the B≈ìotians, and keeping to the.fight hand of the temple of Ceres, you will arrive at Aulis,



which



OF GREECE. a



which they say was denominated from the daughter ofOgygus. There is a temple here of Diana, which con≠tains two flone statues: one of these holds a torch, andthe other is in the attitude of one shooting an arrow.They fay, that when the Greeks, in consequence of theprophesy os Chalcas, were about to sacrifice Iphigenia onthe altar in this temple, the goddess caused a stag to be thevictim instead of her. Even at present, too, they pre≠serve in this temple the remains of the trunk of that plane-tree, which is mentioned by Homer in the Iliad. It islikewise said, that when the Greeks were detained atAulis by adverse winds, the wind on a sudden blew fromthe desired quarter; and then each person sacrificed toDiana whatever victims came to hand, both male andfemale: in consequence of this it became an establishedcustom in Aulis, to approve victims of every kind. Theyfliew a fountain here, near which a plane-tree grows;and on a hill near the tent of Agamemnon, there is abrazen threshold. But palm-trees grow before the temple,the fruit of which is not perfectly sweet to the taste, likethat of the palm-trees in Pal√¶stine; but yet these datesare milder than those which are gathered in Ionia. Thereare not many inhabitants in Aulis; and these are all ofthem potters. The Tanagr√¶i, too, and those that dwellabout Mycalessus and Harma, cultivate this land.



CHAP. XX.



In that part of the country of the Tanagr√¶ans whichborders on the sea, there is a place called Delion, in whichthere are a temple of Djaria, and statues of Latona. The



Tanagr√¶ani



 THE DESCRIPTION



Tanagr√¶ans fay, that their city was built by Poemandrus,the son of Ch√¶refilaus, the grandso n of Iafius, and thegreat grandson of Elemher, who was the son of Apolioand √Üthusa the daughter of Neptune. This Poemandrusmarried Tanagra the daughter of √Üdlus ; though Corinnain her verses fays, that Tanagra was the daughter of Aso-pus. However, (he lived to so great an age, that she wagcalled by her neighbours Graia, or the grey, instead ofTanagra; and, in process of time, this name was givento the city, and remained so long, that it is mentioned byHomer ii‚Äû his catalogue of the Greeks:



"Thefpia, Graia, Myealcfius broad."



In after-times, however, it recovered its pristine name.There is a monument too of Orion in Tanagra, and artountain Cercyius, in Which they fay Mercury was born.There is likewise a place called Poloson: and here theysay Atlas fat, diligently investigating subterranean andcelestial affairs. And that Homer, agreeable to this, faysof Atlas:.



"Atlas, her sire, by whose all-piercing eyeThe depths of ev'ry sea are clearly seen,And who the lofty pillars strenuous rears,Which ev'ry way divide the earth from heav'n."



But in the temple of Bacchus there is a statue whichdeserves to be inspected, of Parian stone, and which wasmade by Calamis. The statue of Triton, however, is stillmore wonderful: and there is a more venerable reportconcerning him, which is as follows:‚Äî The Tanagrianwomen, that were first initiated in the orgies of Bacchus,descended to the sea, for the sake of purifications. Butwhile they were swimming in it, they were assaulted by



Triton;



OF GREECE. 



Triton; and on their imploring Bacchus to defend them,the god heard their prayer, engaged with and vanquishedTriton. There is another report, which is not so vene≠rable as the former, but which is more probable; and it isthis:‚ÄîWhatever cattle were driven to the sea, were at≠tacked and taken away by Triton, who used likewise toseize all small vessels, till the Tanagrians placed on theshore bowls of wine. For Triton, allured by the smell ofthis, drank it, was overpowered by sleep, and fell head≠long from a steep part of the shore. After this a Tana-grian cut off his head with an axe; and this is the reasonwhy his statue is without a head. But they are of opinionthat, because he wa¬ª seen intoxicated, he was slain byBacchus.;



CHAP. XXI.



I HAVE seen another Triton among the admirable ett--riofities of the Romans, but which is not so large as thisof the Tanagrians. The form of the Tritons is as fol≠lows :‚ÄîThe hair of their head resembles the parsley whichgrows in marshes, both in its colour, and in the perfectsimilitude of one hair to another, so that you cannot dis≠tinguish any difference among them. The rest of theirbody is rough, with small scales, and is of the fame hard≠ness with the skin of a fish. They have the gills of a fishunder their earsv Their nostrils are those of a man, buttheir teeth are broader than those of the human species,and are the teeth of a wild beast. Their eyes appear tome to be azure ‚Ä¢, and their hands, fingers, and nails, areof the fame form with the upper shells of shell-fish. They



have



(I THE DESCRIPTION



have fins under their breast and belly, like those of thdolphin, instead of feet. I have likewise seen the√Üthiopian bull, which they call rhinoceros, because ahorn projects from the extremity of its nostril, andanother small one under it: but it has no horns onits head. I have seen too the P√¶orian bulls, whose bodiesare rough in every part, but particularly in the breastand chin. But the Indian camtls resemble leopards intheir colour. There is a wild beast called alee, which isof a species between a stag atid a camel. This animal isfound among the Gauls; and is the only wild beast, we areacquainted with, which can neither be hunted nor fore≠seen at a distance by the human species: but the d√¶mondrives these into the Hands of the hunter, while he is en≠gaged in pursuing other wild beasts. They fay that itsmells a man at a great distance; and, after smelling him,hides itself in chasms and profound caverns. Hunters,therefore, when they have surrounded plains or mountainthickets with their toils, so as that they are certain ofcatching all the aninials within the circumference oftheir toils, catch among the rest the alee. But if it hap≠pens that this animal is not in the part in which theyhave fixed their toils, they are unable to take it by anystratagem whatever.



With respect to that wild beast which Ctesias, in hishistory of the Indians, fays, is called by them martiera,but bj the Greeks androphagos, or the devourer of man, I ampersuaded that it is no other than the tiger. This animal,he fays, has a triple row of teeth in one of its jaws, andstings in the extremity of .its tail, with which it defendsitself when attacked near, and hurls them like arrowsagainst its enemies at a distance. For my own part, I do



not



OF GREECE. 



not believe that tins account of the animal is true, butthat the Indians have been induced to fabricate it, throughvehement dread of this wild beast. For they are deceivedwith respect to its colour, because the tiger, when it isbeheld in the fun, appears to be red, and of a colour similarto that of the sun. Or this deception may have arisen,from the swiftness of the beast, ot from its agility in turn≠ing its body when it is not running, which is so great,that its colour, particularly -if beheld at a distance, cannotbe ascertained. Indeed, I am of opinion, that whoevertravels to the extremities of Africa, India, or Arabia, andis desirous of finding such animals as are produced inGreece, will, in the first place, discover that some of themare wanting; and, in the next place, will find otherswhich vary in certain particulars from those in Greece.'For man is not the only animal which varies in his form ina different air, and a different land, but other animals arcsubject to the same variety. Thus the Libyan asps arc ofthe fame colour with those in Egypt; but in √Üthiopiathey are black as well as the men. Hence we ought nei≠ther to believe in every report indiscriminately, nor yetrefuse our assent to the existence of other things, merelybecause they are rare. I have never indeed seen wingedserpents; but I am persuaded there Sre such animals, be≠cause a Phrygian once brought into Icnia a scorpion,which had wings similar to those cf a locust.



CHAP. XXII.



IN Tanagra, near the temple of Bacchus, there are threetemples; one of Themis, another of Venus, and a thirdf f Apollo; in which last both Diana and Latona are wor≠shipped.



 THE DESCRIPTION



Clipped. With respect to the two temples of Mercufy*one of which is called the temple of Criophoros, or the bearerof the ram, and the other of Pramochos, or the defender,they fay that the first of these was thus denominated, be≠cause Mercury freed them from a pestilence, by carryinga ram round the walls; and that on this account Calamismade a statue of Mercury for the Tanagr√¶ans, carrying aram on his shoulders. He who surpasses in beauty theother youths, carries, on the festival of Mercury, a ramon his shoulders round the walls. But they fay that Mer≠cury was called Promachos, because, when the Eretriensesfrom Eubcca came with a fleet against the Tanagr√¶ans,this god led forth the youth to battle, and, being himselfarmed with a curry-comb like a young man, was the prin≠cipal cause of putting the Eubceenses to flight. In thetemple of Promachos the remains of a purflain-tree arededicated, because, as they fay, Mercury was educatedunder trees of this kind. Not far too from hence thereis a theatre, and near it a porch is raised. In this parti≠cular indeed the Tanagr√¶ans appear to me to reverencethe gods in a manner superior to the rest of the Greeks,because they are careful to build their temples separatefrom other edifices, in a pure place, and remote from themultitude.



In a celebrated part of the city there is a sepulchre ofCorinna, who alone composed verses for the Tanagr√¶ans.In the gymnasium too there is a picture of her, in whichher head is represented bound with a fillet, on account ofher having vanquished at Thebes, Pindar, in the composingof verses. It appears to me, however, that she vanquishedhtm by reason of the dialect which she employed, becauseter verses were not composed in the Doric dialect like those



 f Greece. 



ihose of Pindar, but in that dialect which the √Üolianswould most easily underhand; and because she was themost beautiful woman too of her time, as may be easilyinferred from her picture. Among the Tanagneans, thereare two kinds of cocks, the game, and those which theycall cojsuphoi, or black birds. The size of these cossuphoiis the fame with that of the Lydian birds, but their colourTesombles that of a crow. Their gills, too, and crestsresemble an anemony: and they have white spots, not verylarge, on the extremity of their bill and tail. But in thatpart of Bceotia which is on the left hand of the Euripusjthere is a fountain called Messapios, and under it is themaritime city of the B≈ìotians, Anthedon. Accordingto some, the city was thus denominated from the nymphAnthedon; but according to others, from Anthan theson of Neptune, by Alcyone the daughter "of Atlas, be≠cause Anthan once reigned in this place. Among theAnthedonians, near the middle of their city, there is atemple of the Cabiri; and about it there is a grove ofCeres, and a temple of Proserpine. The statue of thegoddess is of white stone. Before the city, too, and to≠wards the more interior part of the country, there is atemple of Bacchus, and in it there is a statue of the god.In this place likewise there are sepulchres of Iphimedca,and the sons of Aloeus, who were flain by Apollo inNaxos, which is above Paros, both according to Homerand Pindar. The sepulchres of these too are in Anthe≠don. Near the sea there is a place which they call thethicket of Glaucus. This Glaucus was a fisherman, who,after eating a certain herb, became a d√¶mon of the sea:and that he predicts future events, is both believed byothers, and particularly by sailors, who relate many thingsVol. III. E every



So THE DESCRIPTION



every year respecting his divining power. Pindar too zni√Üschylus, relying on these reports of the Anthedonians,have celebrated Glaucus in their verses; the former in≠deed not relating many things of him, but the lattermaking him the subject of one of his dramas.



CHAP. XXIII.



But among the Thebans, before the gate called Proetx,there is that which is denominated the gymnasium osIolaus: there is likewise a stadium, like that in Olympia,or that among the Laurians; for it is a heap of earth.In the fame place too they shew the heroic monument ofIolaus, who, as the Thebans acknowledge, died in Sar≠dinia j the Athenians and Thespienses passing over withhim to that city at the fame time* Having proceeded be≠yond the right hand part of the stadium, you will arrive atthe Hippodrome, in which there is a sepulchre of Pindar.It is said of Pindar, that when he was a young man, as hewas going to Thespia, being wearied with the heat, as itwas noon, and in the height of summer, he fell asleep at asmall distance from the public road j and that bees, as hewas asleep, flew to him and wrought their honey on his lips.This circumstance first induced Pindar to compose verses.Bat when his reputation spread through all Greece, thePythian deity ra.sed his glory to a still greater height, byordering the Delphi to assign to Pindar an equal part ofthose first-fruits which were offered to Apollo. It is alsosaid, that when he was an old man, he saw in a dreamProserpine standing by him, who at the same time told



him,



OF GREECE. 



Kim, that she alone of all the divinities Was not celebratedby him in his hymns, but that when he came to her, hewould compose a hymn in her praise. And indeed hedied on the tenth day aster this dream. But there was atThebes a certain old woman allied to Pindar, and whowas very conversant with his verses, which she used to sing.To her Pindar appeared in a dream, and sang a hymn toProserpine: and the old woman, as soon as she was awake,committed to writing all that she had heard Pindar sing≠ing in her sleep. In this hymn, among other appellationsof Pluto, he is called Chrusinios, or possessing golden reins:and it is evident that this epithet pertains to the rape ofProserpine.



From the sepulchre of Pindar, there is a road which ifor the most part plain to Acr√¶phnium. They fay thatthis city was at first a part of the Theban land: and Ihave found that Theban exiles afterwards fled hither, whenAlexander subverted Thebes. For these, through imbeci≠lity and old age, not being able to reach the Attic land, tookup their residence in this place. This little city is situatedin the mountain Ptous; and contains a temple and statueof Bacchus, which deserve to be inspected. On proceed≠ing to about the distance of fifteen stadia from this city,you will fee on the right hand a temple of Apollo Ptous.But Ptous was the son of Athamas and Themrstus; andfrom him both Apollo and the mountain were denomi≠nated, according to the poet Asius. Before Thebes wasdestroyed by Alexander, there was an oracle in this tem≠ple, which was by no means fallacious. They fay thatan European, whose name was Mys, was once sent hitherby Mardonius, for the purpose of consulting the oracle;and that the god answered his interrogations, not in the



E  Grecian



 THE DESCRIPTION



Grecian tongue, but in a Barbaric dialect. After yoahave passed beyond the mountain Ptous, you will arrive atLarymna, which is a maritime city of the B≈ìotians. Theyfay that it was thus denominated from Larymna, thedaughter of Cynus. But I (hall relate who were her moreremote ancestors, in my account of the Locrian affairs,formerly Larymna belonged to the city Opus: but whenthe power of the Thebans became very considerable, thenthe inhabitants of Larymna voluntarily joined themselvesto the B≈ìotians. There is a temple here of Bacchus,and a statue in an upright position. There is likewise alake, whose profundity commences from its very margin:and the mountains which are above the city afford wildboars for hunters.



CHAP. XXIV.



On proceeding from Acr√¶phnium, in a straight line tothe lake Cephiffis, which is called by some Copais, youwill arrive at a plain which is denominated Athamantios.They fay that Athamas dwelt in this place. The riverCephiffus pours itself into this lake. This river commencesfrom Lil√¶a among the Phocenscs, and affords a passagefor sliips to Copse, which is a small city situated near thelake, and which is mentioned by Homer in his catalogueof the sliips. In this city there are temples of Ceres,Bacchus, and Serapis. The B≈ìotians too fay, that for≠merly other small cities, Athenx and Eleusis, were inha≠bited near this lake, which were destroyed during the win≠ter season by the overflowing of the lake. But the fish inthe lake Cephiffis are in no respect different from the silh which



OFGREECE. 



which are found in other lakes. The eels, however, whichare found in it are very large and sweet. On proceedingfrom Cop√¶,on the left hand, at about the distance of twelvestadia, you will arrive at Holmones : and from Holmones,Hyettus is distant about seven stadia. These are now, asthey were at first, nothing more than villages; and it ap≠pears to me that they are parts of the Orchomenian land,as well as the Athamantian plains. With respect toHyettus, and Holmus the son of Sisyphus, I (hall relatewhat I have heard concerning them, in my account ofthe Orchomenians.



But there is not any thing which deserves in the least tobe inspected among the Holmonians. In Hyettus thereis a temple of Hercules; and in it remedies are found forthe diseased. The statue, however, of Hercules is notartificially made, but is a rude stone after the ancientmanner. At about the distance of twenty stadia fromHyettus, is Crytones, They fay that this small city wasformerly called Cyrtone. It is built on a lofty mountain,and in it there are a temple and grove of Apollo. But inthe temple there are statues in an upright position os Apolloand Diana. Cold water flows here from a rock: and nearthis fountain there is a temple of the Nymphs, and a smallgrove in which trees of every kind are planted. On pro≠ceeding from Crytones, after you have passed over themountain, you will arrive at the town Corsea. Underthis town there is a grove of planted trees, which are forthe most part scarlet oaks. A small statue os Mercurystands in that part of the grove which is in the open air.This grove too is about half a stadium distant from Corsea.On descending into the flat part of the country, you willsee the river Platanius pouring itself into the sea. And



E  on



 THE DESCRIPTION



on the right hand of this river are the extremitiesof the B≈ìotian land: and in this 'place there is a smallcity Al√¶, near the sea, which divides the continent of theLocrians from Eubcea.



nMONC the Thebans, near the gate Neitis, is thesepulchre of Menoeceus the son of Creon, who voluntarilyslew himself, in compliance with the Delphic oracle, whenPolynices came with an army from Argos. A pomegra≠nate-tree grows near his tomb, the fruit of which, whenripe, on breaking the exterior rind, has the appearance ofblood. This tree regerminates perpetually. The Thebanstoo assert that the vine first made its appearance in theircountry; but they have not any token to shew of this atpresent. Not far from the sepulchre of Menoeceus, theylay that the sons of Oedipus, fighting in a single combat,slew each other. As a proof of this combat, there is apillar here, and upon it a stone shield. They {hew aplace, too, in which they fay Juno suckled Hercules, inconsequence of a deception employed by Jupiter. Thewhole of this place is called Surma Antigones, or the draw≠ing of Antigone; because Antigone, when she sound her-rself unable to raise the dead body of Polynices, endea-rvoured to draw it along, and continued her efforts tillshe accomplished her design, and threw it on the funeralpile os Eteocles, which was then enkindled. After you havepassed over the river which is called Dirce, from the wife ofLycus (by whom according to report Antiope was in≠jured, and was on that account slain by the sons of An,



CHAP. XXV.



 



tiope),



OF GREECE. 



tiope), you will see the ruins of the house of Pindar, anda temple os the mother Dindymene, which was dedicatedby Pindar. The statue of the goddess was made by theThebans Aristomedes and Socrates. On one day in everyyear they think proper to open this temple. I happenedto be present on that day, and by this means had an oppor≠tunity of seeing the statue, which is of Pentelican stone, aswell as the throne on which the goddess sits. In the roadfrom the gate Neitis there is a temple of Themis, andin it a statue of white stone. After this there are twotemples, one of the Parc√¶, and the other of Judicial Ju≠piter. The statue of Jupiter is of stone; but there areno statues of the Parc√¶. At a small distance from hence,there is a statue of Hercules in the open air, under theappellation of Rinocoloujles, because, in order to disgracethose ambassadors (as the Thebans fay) that were sent bythe Orchomenians to demand tribute, he cut off theirnoses.



On proceeding to the distance of twenty-five stadiafrom hence, you will fee a grove of Cabirian Ceres andProserpine, into which the uninitiated are not permitted toenter. But who the Cabiri are, and what the ceremonieswhich are performed in honour of them, and the motherof the gods, I must beg those that are desirous of hearingsuch particulars to suffer me to pass over in silence. No≠thing however hinders me from disclosing the origin ofthese mysteries according to the Thebans. They fay,then, that there was once a city in this place, and inha≠bitants, who were called Cabiri; and that Ceres depo≠sited something with Prometheus, who was one of theCabiri, and with his son √Üt.n√¶us, after she became ac≠quainted with them. What this deposit was, and theE . circumstances



$ THE DESCRIPTION



circumstances which took place respecting it, piety forbidsme to disclose. The mysteries therefore of the Cabiriwere the gift of Ceres. But when the Epigoni led anarmy against Thebes, and Thebes was taken, the Cabiribeing driven from their country were not able for sometime to celebrate these mysteries. Afterwards, however,they were restored by Pelarge, the daughter of Potneus,in conjunction with her husband Isthmiades. And then,indeed, Pelarge initiated persons in these mysteries beyondthe ancient boundaries of the country: but Telondes, andthose of the Cabiri that were restored Jo their nativeland, celebrated the mysteries in Cabir√¶a. By an oracletoo given from Dodona, other honours were decreed toPelarge; and a victim big with young was ordered to besacrificed to her. Many instances likewise have evincedthat the wrath of the Cabiri is implacable. Far whencertain private persons in Naupactus had the boldness,to perform the ceremonies established by the Thebans,they were shortly after punistied for their impiety. Suchtoo of the forces of Xerxes as, together with Mardonius,pitched their camps in Bccotia, when they entered thetemple of the Cabiri, either allured by the hope of gain≠ing great riches, or (as it appears to me) through theircontempt of a divine nature, became immediately insane:and some of them threw themselves into the sea, andOthers hurled themselves headlong from rocks. Thusagain, when Alexander had vanquished the Thebans, anddestroyed all Thebes by. sire, such of the Macedonians asentered the temple of the Cabiri, because they were uponhostile ground, were destroyed by thunder and lightning.So holy has this temple been fj^ni the beginning.



CHAP.



OF GREECE. 



CHAP, XXVI,



On the right hand of the temple of the Cabiri, thereis a plain which is called Tenerus, from the prophet Te-nerus, who they fay was the son of Apollo and Melia.Here too there is a large temple of Hercules, who iscalled Ippodotos. For they report that the Orchomenianscame to this place with an army, and that Hercules, seiz≠ing their horses in the night, bound them in such a man≠ner to their chariots, as to prevent their being useful inthe war. On proceeding from hence, you will arrive at amountain, from whence, according to report, the Sphinxused to rush in order to destroy those that could not solve‚ô¶he riddles which ihe fang to them: thougli others aflertthat she used to drive to Anthedon with a naval forceafter the manner of pirates, and afterwards exercise herrobberies from this mountain, till Oedipus flew her bymeans of a numerous army which he brought from Co≠rinth. It is also said, that she was the bailard daughterpf Laius, and that her father taught her the oracle whichwas given to Cadmus at Dclphos, through his kindnesstowards her. Prior to the Theban kings, indeed, no onewas acquainted with the meaning of the oracle ; and thesein succession unfolded it to each other. As often, there≠fore, as any dispute arose respecting the kingdom, theneighbouring people came to consult Sphinx. Laius, in≠deed, had sons by his mistresses; but they fay that themeaning of the oracle given by the Pythian deity was onlyknown to Epicaste, and the children which Laius had byfrer. They add, dial the brothers were circumyented by



the



S THE DESCRIPTION



the sophisms of Sphinx ; and that upon her inquiring whe≠ther, if they were the sons of Laius, they knew the oraclegiven to Cadmus, if they answered in the negative, shecondemned them to death, as not being entitled by theirbirth to the kingdom. Lastly, it is said that the inter≠pretation of the oracle was given to Oedipus in a dream,who was by this means enabled to solve the riddle ofSphinx.



The ruins of the city Onchestus are about fifteen stadiadistant from this mountain: and they fay that Onchestusthe son of Neptune once dwelt in this city. At present,indeed, a temple and statue of Onchestian Neptune re≠main: and there is likewise a grove here which is cele≠brated by Homer. On turning from the temple of theCabiri to the left hand, and proceeding to the distance ofabout fifty stadia, you will arrive at the city Thefpia, whichis situated under mount Helicon, and is said to havebeen denominated from Thefpia the daughter of Asopus.According to some, Thespius, when he left Athens, gavethis name to the city; and they fay that he was the sonof Erechtheus. Among the Thespians, there is even atpresent a brazen statue of Jupiter the Saviour. They re≠port, that the city being once infested with a dragon, Ju≠piter ordered them to expose every year to the savage ani≠mal certain young men chosen by lot; and that the namesof those that perished except one sunk into oblivion. Thename of this one was Cleostratus, who had a brazen coatof mail made for him by his lover Menestratus. This coatof mail was thick set with hooks turned upwards: andCleostratus, a; med with this, very readily went forth tomeet the dragon; and was indeed himself slain, but atthe same time was the destruction of the savage beast.



From



 



OF GREECE. S



From this circumstance Jupiter came to be called Savi≠our. They have besides a statue of Bacchus, another ofFortune, a third of Hygia, and a fourth of Minerva; bythe side of whom there is a statue of Flutus.



CHAP. XXVII.



But the Thespians venerated, from the first, Love be≠yond all the gods: and they have a most ancient statue ofthis divinity, which is nothing more than a rude stone. Ido not however know who it was that instituted this highveneration of Love among theThefpians. The Pariani, too,who dwell about the Hellespont, and who originated fromIonia, and migrated hither from Erythr√¶, but at presentare in subjection to the Romans, venerate this divinity noless than the Thespians. The multitude are of opinion,that Love is the youngest of the gods, and the son ofVenus. But the Lycian Olen, who composed the mostancient hymns for the Greeks, fays in his hymn to Lucina,that Lucina is the mother of Love. And Pamphus andOrpheus, who flourished after Olen, have composed hymnsto Love, that they might be fung by the Lycomed√¶ duringthe celebration of the mysteries. I likewise once spoke witha torch-bearer of the Eleusinian mysteries, and throughhis means read these hymns of Pamphus and Orpheus, ofwhich I shall make no farther mention. Hesiod, indeed,or at least the author of the  heogony, I well know,says, that Chaos was first generated, afterwards Earth,and then Tartarus and Love. But the Lesbian Sapphosings many things of Love, which by no means harmonizewith each other, Lysippus afterwards made a brazen



statue



 THE DESCRIPTION



statue of Love for the Thespians; and prior to him Praxi≠teles made one of Pentelican stone. With respect to thestratagem which Phryne employed, in order to discoverthe favourite statue of Praxiteles, this I have elsewhererelated. They say, that this statue of Love was first movedout of its place, by the Roman emperor Caius. It wasafterwards sent back to the Thespians by Claudius v andagain brought to Rome by Nero, where it was destroyedby sire. Of those, however, who acted thus impiously to≠wards this divinity, one man was slain by a soldier, whomhe used to nick-name in derision; and Nero acted veryimpiously towards his mother, and behaved with a crueltytowards his wives, which shewed that he was entirelydestitute of Love.



But the statue of Love, which is at present among theThespians, was made by the Athenian Menodorus, in imi≠tation of the manner of Praxiteles. In this place toothere isa Venus and a statue of Phryr.e, both of stone, andthe works of Praxiteles. In another part of the city thereis a temple of Venus Mclainis, or the black ‚Ä¢ there a'e be≠tides a theatre, and a forum, well worthy of inspection.Here likewise there is a brazen statue of Hefiod: and not farfrom the forum there are a brazen statue of Victory, and atemple of the Muses not very large. In this temple thereare small statues of stone. The Thespians too have a templeof Hercules ‚Ä¢, the priestess of which retains her virginity aslong as fiie lives. They fay that this arose from the fol≠lowing circumstance: Hercules had connection with allthe fifty daughters of Thestius except one, in one night:and this one, who was unwilling to be connected withhim, was chosen by him as his priestess, but with this re*ILrictioUj that flie should rernain all her life a virgin. But



I have



OF GREECE. 



I have heard another account of this affair, that Herculeswas connected with all the fifty daughters of Thestius inone night, that they all bore him sons, and the youngestand oldest of these daughters were each of them de≠livered of twins. However, for my own part, I cannever be induced to believe, that Hercules could beexcited to such a violent anger against the daughter ofhis friend. Besides, it is not probable, that he who, whilehe was among men, punilhed the insolent behaviour osothers, and particularly revenged impiety towards thegods, would build a temple, and appoint a priestess forhimself as if he was a god. But to me, indeed, it appears,that this temple is more ancient than the period in whichHercules the son of Amphitryon lived: and I do notknow, whether the dedication of this temple ought notto be ascribed to the Hercules who is one of the IdxiDactyli, as I have discovered that the Erythr√¶ans in Ionia,and the Tyrians have raised temples to him. Nor are theB≈ìotians ignorant of this name of Hercules; for theyfay, that the temple of Mycaleflian Ceres was committedto the care of the Idxan Hercules.



CHAP. XXVIII.



TlIE mountain Helicon excels all the mountains inGreece for the goodness of its foil, and the multitude-oftrees which it contains. The young shoots of purflaintoo, with which it abounds, yield the sweetest fruit. Theinhabitants of Helicon fay, that none of the herbs orroots which are produced in this mountain are destructive



to



t THE DESCRIPTION



to mankind. They add, that the pastures here even ie-bilitate the venom of serpents; so that those who are fre≠quently bit by serpents in this part, escape the dangerwith greater ease than if they were of the nation of thePsylli, or had discovered an antidote against poison. Other≠wise the venom of the fiercest of serpents is both destruc≠tive to men, and all other animals. The nature of thepastures too contributes in no small degree to the strengthof the venom. For I once heard a Ph≈ìnician fay, that inthe mountainous part of Ph≈ìnicia, the roots that growthere render the vipers more fierce. The fame person toofarther added, that he saw a viper pursue a man who fledto a tree for shelter, aud that the viper blew its venomagainst the tree to which the man had escaped, and bythis means caused his death. With respect to those vipersin Arabia which take up their residence among balsamtrees, I know that something very different from what Ihave above related happens, and this is as follows: Thebalsam tree is nearly of the fame size as a sprig of myrtle;and its leaves are like those of the herb sweet-marjoram.Vipers take up their residence about these plants; and arein some places more numerous than in others: for thejuice of the balsam tree is their sweetest food; and theyare delighted with the (hade produced by its leaves.When the time therefore arrives for gathering the juiceof this tree, the Arabians come into the sacred grove,each of them holding two twigs. By shaking these theyput to flight the vipers: for they are unwilling to killthem, because they consider them as the sacred inhabitantsof the balsam. And if it happens that any one is woundedby a viper, the wound resembles that which is rhadc byiron, but is not attended with any dangerous conse≠quences:



OF GREECE. j



quences: for these animals being fed with the juice of thebalsam-tree, which is the most odoriferous of all trees,their poison becomes changed from a deadly quality intoone which produces a milder effect.



CHAP. XXIX.



But they fay, that Ephialtes and Otus consecrated thismountain to the Muses, and were the first that sacrificedto these divinities in Helicon. They likewise report thatAscra was built by these. And Hegesinous, in his poemon the Attic land, thus speaks concerning Ascra:



With Ascra mingling once, th' earth-fliaking power,When rolling years their rounds had run, begatA son nam'd Oeclus, who Ascra built,Assisted by Alotus' offspring, nearThe streams of Helicon's irriguous feet.



I never read the poetical compositions of Hegesinous; forthey were not extant when I was born. But Calippus theCorinthian, in his history of the Orchomenians, cites theverses of Hegesinous in proof of what he asserts: andhence, I have taken these verses from Calippus. At pre≠sent a tower remains in Ascra; but of every thing elseeven the remembrance has perished. The sons of Aloeuswere of opinion, that there were only three Muses; andthese they called Melete, Mneme, and Aoide, which signifymeditations memory, and Jinging. But they fay, that in aftertimes, Pierus the Macedonian, from whom a mountain inMacedonia is denominated, came to Thespia, and orderedthat nine Muses stiould be worshipped by the names which



they



 THE DESCRIPTION



they retain at present. And this alteration was made fry*Pierus, either because it appeared to him to be wiser, or inconsequence of some oracle, or as the result of what he hadlearned from the Thracians. For formerly the Thraciansseem to have excelled the Macedonians in dexterity inhuman affairs, and not to have been so negligent as theywere in divine concerns. There are those, too, who saythat Pierus had nine daughters, and that he called themby the names of the Muses; and that the grandchildrenof Pierus by these daughters were called by the nameswhich the Greeks give to the offspring of the Muses.But Mimnermus, who composed elegies respecting thebattle of the Smyrntcans against Gyges and the Lydians,fays in the preface to this work, that the more ancie.itMuses are the daughters of Heaven, and that those ofposterior origin are the daughters of Jupiter.



In Helicon, too, as you go to the grove of the Muses,you will fee on the left hand the fountain Aganippe. Theyfay that Aganippe was the daughter of Termessus, whichflows round mount Helicon. But if you proceed to thisgrove in a straight line, you will fee a stone image of Eu-pheme. This Eupheme is said to have been the nurse ofthe Muses. After her image there is a statue of Linusin a small stone, which is carved so as to resemble, acavern. They perform funeral sacrifices every year to thispoet, before they sacrifice to the Muses. It is said that Linuswas the son of Urania by Amphiaraus the son of Nep≠tune. The renown which he acquired for his skill in music,was superior not only to that of his contemporaries, butto that of all his predecessors: and he is said to have beenslain by Apollo for attempting to compare his skill insinging with that of the god. Indeed the death os Linus



was



OF GREECE. j



was lamented by every barbarous nation; and among theEgyptians there is a song which the Greeks call Linus:for this song is denominated by the Egyptians Manerem,But the Greeks, and among these Homer, mention thissong as Grecian. For Homer, being well acquainted withthe misfortune of Linus, fays that Vulcan represented,among other things, in the shield of Achilles, a boy play≠ing on a harp, aiid singing the fate of Linus:



"To these a youth awakes the warbling strings,Whole fender ky the fate of Linus sings."



But Pamphus, who composed the most ancient hymns forthe Athenians, fays, that grief for the death of Linus in≠creased to that degree, that he came to be called Oitolinos,or lamentable Linus. And afterwards the Lesbian Sappho,having learnt the name Oitolinos from the verses of Pam≠phus, celebrates in her poems Adonis and Oitolinos. TheThebans too boast that Linus was buried in their coun≠try; and they fay, that after the loss of the Greeks atCh√¶ronea, Philip the son of Amyntas, in consequence ofa vision in a dream, brought the bones of Linus to Mace≠donia ; and afterwards, from another dream, carried backthe bones to Thebes. The covering however of this tomb,and every thing else belonging to it, have, they say, beenobliterated through length of time. The Thebans like≠wise assert, that there was a junior Linus, the son os Isme-'nius; and that when but a boy he was slain by Hercules,whom he instructed in music. However, neither theLinus the son of Amphimarus, nor he who was the son ofIsmenius, composed any tlung in verse; or, if they did, ithas not been transmitted to posterity.



Vol. III.



F



CHAP.



 



$ THE DESCRIPTION



CHAP. XXX.



Th E ancient statues of all the Muses here were madeby Cephisodotus. And on proceeding to no great distancefrom hence, you will fee three Muses which were made byCephisodotus, and after these the same number of Musesthe works of Strongylion, who made oxen and horses afterthe best manner. The remaining three Muses were madeby Olympiosthenes. In Helicon too there are a brazenApollo and a Mercury contending with each other abouta lyre. There is likewise a Bacchus the work of Lyfippus:for the upright statue of Bacchus, which was dedicatedby Sylla, was made by Myron, and except hi^ statue ofErechtheus, deserves to be inspected beyond all his work*at Athens. Sylla, however, did not dedicate this statueout of his own pofleslions, but took it from the Orcho-menian Minyte. And this is what the Greeks call vene≠rating a divine nature with foreign fumigations. Heretoo you may fee the statues of poets and illustrious mu≠sicians. Among these there are Thamyris now blind, andhandling a broken lyre; and the Methymn√¶an Arion sit≠ing pn a dolphin. But he who made the statue of the Ar-give Sacadas, from not understanding the exordium ofPindar's verses upon him, has made this piper notgreater as to the length of his body than his pipes. Hesiodtoo sits here holding a harp on his knees, though this wasnot his usual attitude: for it is evident from his poems,that he used to sing near a twig of laurel. With respectto the age of Hesiod and Homer, though I have mad¬´



 th*



OF GREfiCE. $



the most diligent and accurate inquiry, it is slot agreeableto me to give my opinion on this subject, as I know thatIt has occasioned great disputes among men of formertimes, and that there is no small contention about - kamong poets of the present day. There is a statue heretoo of the Thracian Orpheus, withJV/rff, or mystic sacrificetstanding by his side. He is represented singing, and issurrounded by wild beasts fashioned from brass and stone,who are listening to his song. The Greeks, indeed, be≠lieve many things which are by no means true, and thisamong the rest, that Orpheus was the son of the MuseCalliope, and not of that Calliope who was the daughterof Pierus; that he allured wild beasts by the melody ofhis lyre; and that he descended to Hades while alive, forthe purpose of requesting the infernal gods to restore himback his wife. But it appears to me, that Orpheus sur≠passed all the poets that were prior to him in the eleganceof his compositions, and that he acquired great authorityin consequence of the general opinion, that he inventedthe mysteries of the gods, purifications for impious actions,remedies for diseases, and the methods of appeasing thewrath of divinity.



They report too concerning him, that the Thracianwomen endeavoured to take away his life by stratagem,because he persuaded their husbands to attend him in hiswanderings, but that they had not the boldness to putthis design in execution through fear of their hustvinds jat length, however, by drinking largely of wine, th;y ac≠complished this daring project. Hence, they fay, it cameto be established by law, that men should be led to battleintoxicated. There are others again who fay, that Or-fheus was killed by lightning, on account of having taught



F a things



<$ THE DESCRIPTION



things in the mysteries which men were unacquainted withbefore. It is likewise reported of Orpheus, that after thedeath of his wife, he came in consequence of it to Aornusin Thesprotia, because there was an ancient oracle there ofdeparted spirits; that when he came here he expected thefoul of Eurydice would follow him; but that finding him≠self disappointed, he flew himself through grief. TheThracians add, that the nightingales, which build theirnests about the sepulchre of Orpheus, sing sweeter andlouder than other nightingales. But the Macedonians,who inhabit die country under the Pierian mountain, andthe city Dibs, fay that Orpheus was slain in that place bywomen. On proceeding from Dios to the mountain atabout the distance of twenty stadia, you will fee a pillaron the right hand, and upon it a stone urn, which, ac≠cording to the inhabitants of this place, contains the bonesof Orpheus. The river Helicon flows through this partof the country, and at the distance of eighty-five stadiahides itself in the earth. Afterwards having concealed it≠self for about twenty-two stadia, it again rises, and, as≠suming the name of Baphyr√¶ instead os Helicon, becomesa navigable river, and pours itself into the sea. The Diatxsay, that this river at first ran in an open channel; but thatwhen the women who flew Orpheus attempted to washthemselves from his blood in it, then it funk into the earth,that its water might not be the means of purifying themfrom his murder.



I have likewise heard a different report from this inLarifia: that formerly there was a city in Olympus called. Libethra, and which stood in that part of the mountainwhkh is turned towards Macedonia: that the sepulchreof Orpheus is not far from hence; and that an oracle of



Bacchus



Ot GREECE. '' s <fy



Bacchus was transmitted to the Libethrians from Thrace,informing them that their city would be destroyed bySus whenever the fun should behold the bones of Or≠pheus. The Libethrians, however, did not pay muchattention to the oracle, because they did not believe'that there could be any wild beast sufficiently large andstrong to destroy their city ; and as to the'boar, th?y werepersuaded that its boldness was superior to its strength.However, when it seemed fit to divinity the followingcircumstances took, place: A shepherd about' mid-day,being weary laid himself down by the tonib of Orpheus,and in his sleep began to sing the verses of that poet witha loud and sweet voice. The neighbouring shepherds there≠fore and husbandmen, allured by this harmony, left theiremployments, and gathered themselves round the sleep≠ing shepherd. But it so happened, from their pushingagainst, and striving to outstrip each other in getting neatthe shepherd, that they overturned the pillar, broke theurn which contained the bones of Orpheus, and by this-means caused them to be seen by the sun. Afterwards,on the following night, divinity caused it to rain in abun≠dance; and the river Sus, which is one of the torrents'about Olympus, rushed with such impetuosity against thewalls of the Libethrians, that it threw them down, toge≠ther with all the temples and houses, and drowned allthe men and animals that were in the city. The Libe≠thrians therefore becoming extinct, the Macedonians thatdwelt in Dios (as a Lariss√¶an, who was my guest, informedme) conveyed the bones of Orpheus to their own country.But those who are conversant with the writings of thepoets, know with respect to the hymns of Orpheus, thateach of them is very short, and that the whole pf them



F  doei



* THE DESCRIPTION



does not amount to any considerable number. The Ly-corned* are well acquainted with them, and sing them inthe mysteries of Ceres. These hymns are next to thoseof Homer for the elegance of their composition; but onaccount of their superior sanctity, they are preferred forjreligious purposes to thpfe of Homer.



CHAP. XXXI.



In Helicon too there is a statue of Arsinoe, whom,Ptolemy married though she was his sister. A brazenostrich supports this statue. These birds indeed havewings naturally like other birds, but through the weightand magnitude of their bodies they are unable to raisethemselves into the air. Here likewise there are a hindsuckling Telephus the son of Hercules, and an ox standingnear her. Besides these there is a statue of Priapus, which-deserves to be inspected. This god is honoured in otherplaces by those who take care of goats, sheep, or bee≠hives: but the Lampsaceni venerate him beyond all theother d:yinities, and assert that he is the son of Bacchusand Venus. Among other tripbds too which are dedi≠cated in Helicon there is a mosLancient one, which theysay Hesiod received in Chalcis by the Euripus, in conse≠quence of a victory which he gained by his verses. Thegrove here is surrounded with inhabitants : and the Thes≠pians celebrate a festival in this place, and games whichthey call Mouseia, or, sacred to the Muses. They also ce≠lebrate games in honour of Love, in which rewards arenot only proposed to musicians, but likewise to the athleta:,On ascending from this grove to the distance of twenty



OF GREECE. 



stadia, you will see a fountain, which is called the fountainof the horse. They say, that the horse of Bellerophonmade this fountain by striking the earth with his hoof.But the B≈ìotians that dwell about Helicon have a tradi≠tion among them, that Hesiod wrote nothing besides thepoem entitled Works and Days; and from this they takeaway the introduction to the Muses, and fay that sheproper beginning of the poem is that part which speaksof Contentions. They shewed me too a leaden table nearthe fountain, which was almost entirely rotten throughage, but on which the Works and Days of Hesiod waswritten. Their opinion, however, who ascribe many worksto Hesiod, is very different from this. And, according to these, he composed a poem On Women; The Great Eoea *The Thtogony; Verses on the Prophet Melampus; The De≠scent of Theseus with Pirithous to Hades; The Exhortation ofChiron, viz. relative to the instruclidti of Achilles; and thepoem called Works and Days.



The same persons too assert, that Hesiod was instructed'jn divination by the Acarnanes: and, indeed, a poem of He-Cod On Divination is extant, which I have read, togetherwith The Narrations of Prodigies, which are at the end of it.Contrary reports likewise are circulated about the deathof Hesiod. For though it is universally agreed, that thesons of Ganyctor, Ctimenus, and Antiphus, fled to Mo≠lucca from Naupactus on account of the murder ofHesiod, and that through their impiety to Neptune theywere punished there, yet some are of opinion, that He≠siod was falsely accused of having ravished the sister ofthese young men, and others assert, that she was ravishedby him. And such arc the different reports which arecirculated about Hesiod and his works. On the top ofF  mount



* THE DESCRIPTION



mount Helicon is the river Lamusy which is not large iand in the borders of the Thespians there is a plaoe calledHedonacon, which contains the fountain of Narcissus.They fay that Narcissus beheld himself in this fountain }that he did not know he was in love himself; and thathe died through this love by the side of the fountain. Tobe in love indeed with a shadow, and not to know thedifference between a man and the shadow of a man, isstupidity in the extreme. But there is another reportconcerning Narcissus, which is less known thrn the formerone -, and this is, that he had a twin sister, who perfectlyresembled him in her whole form, that her hair and dresswere similar to those of Narcissus, and that they used togo out together to hunt. That Narcissus fell in Jove withthis sister ; and that slie happening to die before hini, heused to come to this fountain, in which, when he sawhis own shadow, without at the same time perceiving thatit was his own, he found some mitigation of the tormentsof his love, by imagining that it was the image of his sister.It appears to me, however, that the earth produced theflower Narcissus, prior to this circumstance; and m¬ªopinion is confirmed by the verses of Pamphus. For hefays, that many years before the Thespian Narcissus,Proserpine the daughter of Ceres was forcibly takenaway by Pluto, as she was playing and gathering flowers jand that she was deceived not by violets, but by theparcissus.



CHAP.



 



QF GREECE, .



 



CHAP. XXXII.that dwell in Creusis, which is a liayen of tho



Thespians, have no public building or statue which de≠serves to be mentioned : but in the house of a private per≠son-in Creusis there is a statue of Bacchus, which is madeof plaster, and adorned with pictures. But the passage bjrsea to Creufis from Peloponnesus is winding and stormy.The promontories which run in(o the sea, give such acurvature to the shores, that ships cannot fail in a directline, and the winds blow violently from the neighbouringmountains. On sailing from Creusis, not upwards butnear Boeotia, you will fee the city Thisbe on the righthand. And in the first place there is a mountain nearthe sea. When you have passed beyond this you willsee a plain, and after this another mountain, in the bottompart of which there is a city. In this city there is a templeof Hercules, and in it a stone statue in an upright po≠sition. They celebrate .here a festival, which they callHeracleia. Nothing would hinder the plain which lies herebetween the mountains from becoming a lake, throughthe great quantity of water in this part, if they did notraise a strong bank through the middle of the plain, turnthe water every year to places beyond the bank, and cul≠tivate the other parts cf the plain. They fay that thenymph Thisbe, from whom the city is denominated, wasa native of this place. On sailing from hence you willsee a small city near the sea, which is called Tipha. Therejs a temple of Hercules here, in which they celebrate a



festival



>



 THE DESCRIPTION



festival annually. The Tiph√¶enses assert, that they ex≠celled from the first all the other B≈ìotians in the know≠ledge of maritime affairs, and that Tiphys, who waschosen to be the pilot of the ship Argo, was a native oftheir country. i



Before the city too they (hew a place, to which theyfay the Argo drove when it returned from Colchis. Onproceeding upwards from Thespia towards the conti≠nent, you will arrive at the city Haliartus. But !t i*not proper that I should separate from my account ofthe Orchomenian affairs, the particulars respecting thebuilder of this city and Coronca. In the Persian war, onepart of the army of Xerxes laid waste with fire andsword the land and city of the Haliartians, on account oftheir attachment to the interest of the Greeks. But inHaliartus there is a sepulchre of Lysandra the Laced√¶≠monian. For when he drew near to Haliartus in orderto attack its walls, as the city was defended within by anarmy of Athenians and Thebans, these forces leaving thecity, a battle ensued, in which Lysander was slain. Indeed,Lysander appears to me to have merited, by his conduct,both the greatest praise and blame. For he gave a speci≠men of consummate sagacity in warlike affairs when hecommanded thePeloponnesian fleet. For having attentivelywatched the motions of Antiochus the pilot of Alcibiades,at that time when the commander was absent, he inducedhim to hope,' that he would be able to engage in a navalbattle with the Laced√¶monians, and afterwards vanquishedhim trusting to his arrogance and temerity, not far fromthe walls of the Colophonians. Lysander, too, when hewas again chosen by the Spartans to command their three-pared galleys, so mitigated the anger of Cyrus, that as;



often



OF GREECE. -



often as he requested money for the use of his fleet, Cyrusseasonably and liberally supplied him with it. And whenthe Athenians had one hundred vessels stationed in √Ügos-potamos, Lysander made them his prize, through takingadvantage of the time when the sailors went on shore inorder to lay in water and fresh provisions.



He likewise exhibited the following specimen of justice:A dispute about money happened to take place, betweenAutelycus the pancratiast, whose image I have seen in thePrytaneum at Athens, and Eteonicus a Spartan. Herethe Spartan, whose abilities in defending his cause wereinferior to those of Autolycus, behaved notwithstandingso insplently, because the city of the Athenians was at thattime in the power of the thirty tyrants, and Lysander waspresent, that he struck his adversary, and because Autoly≠cus defended himself, brought him to Lysander, expectingthat he would decide the affair in his favour. Lysander,however, accused Eteonicus of having acted unjustly, anddismissed him with reproaches and disgrace. These actionstherefore raised the reputation of Lysander: but the fol≠lowing disgraced his character: At √Ügospotamos he slewPhilocles the Athenian, who was one of the commandersof the Athenian fleet, and four thousand Athenian cay-tives besides, and would not suffer them to be buried,though the Athenians permitted the Persians that fell atMarathon, and Xerxes those Laced√¶monians that died tThermopyl√¶, to be buried. Afterwards, too, a greater dis≠grace befel the Laced√¶monians through Lysander; andthis was by his placing Decadarchs, or companies of ten men,over the cities that were in alliance with the Laced√¶mo≠nians, and besides these Laconic Harmidai, or, apt ad≠ministrators of affairs. And lastly, when the Spartans took



no



j THE DESCRIPTION



no care to acquire wealth, and thiff in consequence of anoracle, which declared, that the desire of riches wouldbe the only thing destructive to Sparta, Lyfander inflamedthem with a vehement desire of becoming rich. Hence,following the opinion of the Persians, and judging accord≠ing to their law, I conclude that Lyfander was more hurt-ful than useful to the Laced√¶monians.



CHAP. XXXIII.



But in Haliartus there is a sepulchre of Lyfander, andan heroic monument of Cecrops the son of Pandion. Themountain too, Tilphussius, and the fountain Tilphussa,are about fifty stadia distant from Haliartus. It is said bythe Greeks, that when the Argives together with the sonsof Polynices took Thebes, as they were leading along theprophet Tiresias, with their other spoils, to the DelphicApollo, the prophet being thirsty by the way drank of thefountain Tilphufla, and immediately after expired. Hissepulchre therefore is near this fountain. They fay, too,that Manto the daughter of Tiresias was given to Apolloby the Argives; but that by order of the god she parsedover in a stiip to Colophon in Ionia, and there marriedRhacius the Cretan. With respect to other particularsabout Tiresias, such as the number of years which helived, his being changed from a man into a woman, andwhat Homer asserts of him in the Odyssey, that he was theonly wife person in Hades‚Äîthese are known to every one.Among the Haliartians too there is in the open air atemple of those goddesses who are called Praxidicai, or, the



Winger^



*CHF GREECE. ft



mvengers of actions. They swear on the altars os these god≠desses, and never violate the oath which they have thu#taken. This temple is near the mountain Tilphussius. Butin Haliartus there are temples in which there are nostatues, because the temples are without roofs. To whatdivinities these were dedicated I have not been able tolearn. The river Lophis flows through the Haliartianland. It is said, that this country at first was very dry,owing to its being totally destitute of water, and that oneof the principal inhabitants went to Delphos to inquireby what means water might be found: that the Pythiandeity answered him, that he must flay the first person hemet on his return to Haliartus; and that he happeningto meet first of all with Lophis the son of Parthenomenes,immediately struck the youth with his sword. That Lo≠phis yet breathing ran round the place in which he waswounded ‚Ä¢, that wherever his blood fell on the groundthere water ascended; and that from this circumstancethe river was called Lophis.



Alalcomen√¶ is a village by no means large, and issituated at the extremities of a mountain not very lofty.They fay, that this place was denominated from a nativeAlalcomenes, who was the nurse of Minerva. But, ac≠cording to others, it was called after Alalcomenia, whowas the daughter of Ogygus. At some distance from thisvillage a temple of Minerva stands in a plain; and in itthere is an ancient statue of ivory. Sylla, indeed, wasguilty of many cruelties towards the Athenians, and hisconduct, was very different from the manners of the Ro≠mans. His behaviour too towards the Thebans and Or-chomenians resembled his conduct towards the Athe≠nians: and from the Alakomenians he took away this



statue



t THE DESCRIPTION



statue of Minerva. This man, however, who so furiouslycaptured the Grecian cities, and carried away the statuesof their gods, was tormented with the most unpleasant ofall diseases. For his body was covered with lice: and hisformer good fortune was terminated by so calamitous anend. But the temple in Alalcomen√¶ was neglected afterthis event, as being deprived of its divinity. Another cir≠cumstance too happened in my time, which contributedto the dissolution of the temple. A large and strong ivy,which grew by the side of the temple, destroyed the ce≠ment of the stones, and separated them from each other.A torrent not very large, which they call Triton, flowshere: and they fay it was thus denominated, because Mi≠nerva was educated near the river Triton; just as if thistorrent was the river Triton, and not that which, pro≠ceeding from the marsti Tritonis in Africa, pours itselfinto the Lybian sea.



CHAP. XXXIV.'



BEFORE you arrive at Coronea from Alalcomenre,you will see a temple of Minerva Itonia. This name wasgiven to the goddess by Itonus the son of Amphictyon.The B≈ìotians assemble together in this place in- order toform a common convention. In this temple there arebrazen statues of Minerva Itonia, and Jupiter. Thesewere made by Agoracritos, the disciple and lover of Phi≠dias. Statues too of the Graces were dedicated here inmy time. It is said that Iodamia, who officiated aspriestess to die goddess, once came by night within the



sacred



OF GREECE. r,



sacred enclosure of the temple, and that Minerva ap≠peared to her, invested with a robe, in which there wasthe head of Medusa: that Iodamia, as soon as she beheldit, became a stone; and that on this account, a Womanplaces fire every day on the altar of Iodamia, and fay*thrice in the B≈ìotian tongue, that Iodamia lives, and callsfor sire. The remarkable particulars which Coronea con≠tains, are an altar of Mercury Epimelius in the forum*and an altar of the Winds. A little below these there isa temple of Juno, and in it an ancient statue, which wasmade by the Theban Pythodorus. This statue holds Sirensin one of its hands. For they fay, that the daughters ofAchelous were persuaded by Juno to contend in singingwith the Muses; and that the Muses, being victorious,* plucked off the wings of the Sirens, and made crowns"from them. The mountain Libethrius is about forty stadiadistant from Coronea. In this mountain there are statuesof the Libethrian Muses and Nymphs. There are like≠wise two fountains here, one of which they call Libethrias,and the other Petta, or a rock. These fountains resemblethe breasts of women, and water resembling milk ascendsfrom them. To the mountain Laphystion, and the groveof Jupiter Laphystius from Coronea the distance is twentystadia. There is a stone statue of the god in this grove:and they fay, that when Athamas was about to sacrificePhrixus and Helle here, the sons of Jupiter sent a ramwhose wool was golden, upon the back of which theyescaped. Above this grove there is a place called Her≠cules Cbarops, or the grey-eyed: and the B≈ìotians fay,that Hercules ascended here, dragging up the dog ofHades.



O*



fee THE DESCRIPTION



On descending from the mountain Laphystion to thetemple of Minerva Itonia, you will see the river Phalarusrunning into the lake Cephiffis. Beyond the mountain La-phystion is Orchomenus, an illustrious and renowned Gre*cian city, which once arrived at the highest degree of feli≠city, and which was destroyed by nearly the fame means atMycene and Delos. The following particulars are handeddown to us respecting its ancient affairs. They fay, thatAndreus the son of the river Peneus, first of all dwelt inthis place, and that from him the country was denominatedAndreis. That Athamas, becoming acquainted with him,gave him all the country about the mountain Laphystion,together with that region which is now called Coroneaand Haliartia. But Athamas, being of opinion that heIhould not leave any male children behind him (becausehe called to mind his conduct, when insane, towards Lear-chus and Melicerte, Leiicon had died through disease,and he was ignorant whether Phrixus was alive, or had anychildren), on this account he adopted Coronus and Ha-liartus, the sons of Thersander, who was the son of Sisy≠phus: for Athamas-was the brother of Sisyphus. How≠ever, when Phrixus, as some say, or Presbon, accordingto others, who was the son of Phrixus by the daughterof √Üttes, returned from the Colchi, the sons of Ther≠sander gave up the kingdom of Athamas to Athamas andhis progeny. These, therefore;, having received fromAthamas a pnrt of the land, built Haliartus and Coronea.But prior to the return of these, Evippe the daughter ofLcucon was given in marriage by Athamas to Andreus:and by her he had Eteoclcs; though it is reported by thecitizens, that Eteoclcs was the son of the river Cephisus.



Hence,



OF GREECE. 



Hence, certain poets call Eteocles in their verses, Cephi-fiades. This Eteocles, when he began to reign, sufferedthem to call the country from Andreus. But lie institutedtwo tribes, one of which he ordered to be called Cephi-fiades, and the other after his own name Eteoclea. WhenHalmus, too, the son of Sisyphus, came to him, he gavehim but a small part of the country for his portion: andthe towns were called Halmones from Halmus. But inafter times, one town alone came to be called Halmones.



CHAP. XXXV.



 H E B≈ìotians-, too, fay that Eteocles was the first thatsacrificed to the Graces. And, indeed, that he establishedthree Graces they are well convinced j but they have lostthe remembrance of the names which he gave them. Forthe Lacedsemonians only worship two Graces, tlie statuesof which, they fay, were dedicated by Laced√¶mon theson os Taygete, who also gave them the names of Cletaand Phaenna. These names, indeed, are very properlygiven to the Graces, as likewise are those names whichare assigned to the Graces by the Athenians. For theAthenians have from ancient times venerated the Graces,Auxo arid Hegemone. And as to Carpus, it is not a nameof one of the Graces, but of one of the Seasons. Butthe Athenians worship the other of the Seasons, together‚ñ†with Pandrosus, arid call this diviriity Thalloie, or thejkurijbing. Indeed, we how pray to three Graces, having'learnt that there are three from the Orchomenian Eteo≠cles. Those, too, that have made statues of Bacchus haveVol. III. G place!



* THE DESCRIPTION



placed three Graces in the hands of the god, just alAngelion and Tect√¶us have done to the Delphic Apollo.And at Athens, in the vestibule of the tower there arethree Graces, whose mysteries, which are kept secret fromthe multitude, are there celebrated. But Pamphus is thefirst we are acquainted with, that celebrated the Gracesin verse : but he neither mentions their number, nor theirnames. Homer too makes mention of the Graces, andfays that one of these is the wife of Vulcan, and that hername is Charis. He also fays, that Sleep is the lover ofthe Grace Pasithea: and in the speech of Sleep, he hasthe following verse:



"That flic my lov'd-one (hall be ever mine,The youngest Grace, Pasithea the divine."



Hence some have suspected that Homer knew os othersnore ancient Graces.



But Hesiod in the Theogony (if that work be the com≠position of Hesiod) fays that the Graces are the daughtersof Jupiter and Eurynome, and that their names are Eu-phrosyne, Aglaia, and Thalia. Onomacritus, too, in hisverses gives them the fame names. But Antimachus neithermentions the number, nor the names of the Graces, butonly fays, that they are the daughters of Aigle and theSun. Hermesianax the writer os elegies fays, what noone before him ever asserted, that Pitho, or persuasion, isone of the Graces. But I have not been able to find, whothe first person was, that either by a statue or picture re≠presented the Graces naked. For the more ancient statuesand pictures of the Graces have garments. Thus amongthe Smyrnxans in the temple of the Nemefcs, among theother statues, there are Graces fashioned of gold, which



were



OF GREECE. 



Vere made by Bupalus. And in the Odeum there is apicture of a Grace, which was painted by Apelles. Amongthe Pergamenians too, in the bed-chamber of Attalus, andin the temple which they call Puthion, there are Graceswhich were painted by the Parian Pythagoras. Besidesall these, Socrates the son of Sophroniscus made a sta≠tue os the Graces for the Athenians, which is placedin the vestibule of their tower. These are all in a similarmanner clothed: and I cannot tell for what reason menin aster times, in their statues and pictures of the Graces,represented them naked.



chap, xxxvr.



On the death of Eteocles, the kingdom came to theposterity of Halmus. The daughters of this Halmus wereChrysogenea and Chryse. It is reported, thr.t Phlegyas wasthe son of Mars by Chryse. And Phlegyas reigned afterEteocles, because Eteocles did not leave any male offspringbehind him. But at that time the name of the wholecountry was changed; so that the region whkh was be≠fore denominated Andreis, was then called Phlegyantis.The city too Andreis was inhabited from the first, towhich Phlegyas added another called by his own name,and collected into it the best of all the Grecian warriors.The Phlegyans, however, in after times, through theirstupidity and boldness, separated themselves from the otherOrchomenians, and led away at the fame time the neigh≠bouring people. At length too they turned their arms againstthe temple of the Delphic Apollo, in order to plunder



 



Ga it:



& THE DESCRIPTION



Jt: and when Philammon with a chosen band of ArglveJcame to assist the Delphi, both he and his forces fell inthe engagement which ensued. That the Phlegyans, in≠deed, delighted in warlike affairs beyond the rest of theGreeks, is evident from these line's of Homer in the Iliad,respecting Mars and the son of Mars, Terror:



"From Thrace they fly, call'd to the dire alarmsOf Warring Phlegyaris, and Ephyrian arms.'



But, in these verses, he appears to me to call those that in≠habit the Thesprotian Epirus, Ephyri. However, divinitynearly destroyed the race of the Phlegyans by continuedthunder and violent earthquakes, and those that werelest were destroyed by pestilence, except a few that fledto Phocis.



But Phlegyas dying without children, Chryses the sonof Neptune, by Chrysogenea the daughter of Halmus,feigned after him. The son of this Chryses was Minyas;and from him, the people that he governed are even atpresent called Miny√¶. So great was the tribute whichwas paid to this Minyas, that he surpassed in wealth allthose that reigned before him, and was the first we areacquainted with among the Miny√¶ that built a treasuryfor the purpose of securing his riches. And there arecertain Greeks, who have great knowledge in affairs ofthis kind, by whom these treasuries are considered as morewonderful than those which their own country contains.However, the most illustrious historians, who have giventhe most accurate account of the Egyptian pyramids, havenot made the least mention of the treasury of Minyas,and the walls of Tiryns, though they are equally worthyof admiration. The son of this Minyas was Orchomenus:and during his reign the city was called Orchomenes, and



the



OF GREECE.



the people were denominated Orchomenians. Yet theappellation of Miny√¶ still remains, for the purpose of dis≠tinguishing these people from the Orchomenians in Ar≠cadia. Orchomenus therefore reigning, Hyettus came tohim from Argos; for this Hyettus was obliged to abandonhis country, on account of having murdered Molurus theson of Arisbas, whom he had detected committing adul≠tery with his wife. Orchomenus gave this Hyettus, thatpart of the country which is about the village Hyettus,and the land adjoining to it. The author of the verseswhich the Greeks call the Great Eoe√¶, makes mention¬´f Hyettus:



"Hyettus, when Arisbas' son he found,Molurus, in the chamber of his wife,Th' adult'rer slew, and ftoin his country fled,Argns, the fertile nurse of gen'rous steeds.To Minyas' son Orchomenus he came:The exile then th' heroic prince receiv'd,And nobly gave him of his realms a fliarc."



But it is evident, that this Hyettus was the first thatpunished adultery. For in after times Draco, among thelaws which he made for the Athenians, relative to thepunishment of unjust actions, enacted, that adultery shouldhe severely punished. The name too of the Miny√¶ arrivedat such a degree of dignity, that Neleus, the son of Cre-theus and king of Pylus, married from OrchomenusaAoris the daughter of Amphion the son of Hilasiust



C H A P..



 



¬ª THE DESCRIPTION



CHAP. XXXVH.



ThE race however of Halmus was destined to coma toan end. For Orchomenus did not leave behind him any*>children ; and in consequence of this, the royal authoritypassed to Clymenus the son of Presbon, and the grandson,of Phrixus. Erginus was the eldest son of this Clymenus jthe next to him in age were Stratius, Arrhon, and Pyleus \but the youngest of all was Axeus. Certain Thebans, fora very trifling offence, flew Clymenus during the cele≠bration of the festival of Onchestian Neptune, this flightoffence having roused them to vehement wrath. Erginus,as being the eldest son of Clymenus, reigned after hisfather; and immediately as he came to the throne, havingwith the assistance of his brothers collected an army, ledhis forces against Thebes, vanquished the Thebans, andafterwards made a treaty of peace with them, On conditionthat they paid him an annual sum of money as a recom≠pense for the murder of Clymenus. But when Herculesundertook to defend the Thebans, then the Thebans werefreed from this tribute, and the Miny√¶ suffered greatlyin war. Hence Erginus, who saw that his subjects werewearied in the extreme with the continuance of the war,made a peace with Hercules; and desirous that his king≠dom might recover its pristine opulence and felicity, somuch neglected every thing else to accomplish this, thathe arrived at extreme old age without ever having been,married, or had any children. As soon however as hebecame rich, he wished to have children: and coming toDelphos in order to interrogate the god on this subject,



OF GREECE. 



he received the following oracle: " OErginus, son of Cly.menus, and grandson of Presbon, thou earnest hitherlate, inquiring after an offspring, but even now add apew top to the old tail of the plough."



In conformity therefore to the admonition of the ora≠cle, Erginus married a young woman, by whom he hadTrophonius and Agamedes; though it is said that Tropho-nius was the son of Apollo, and not of Erginus; which,indeed, I can easily be persuaded to believe, and this multbe the opinion of any one who goes to the oracle of Tro≠phonius. They fay, that these sons of Erginus, as sconas they arrived at manhood, became very skilful jn build≠ing temples for the gods, and palaces for kings. For theybuilt the temple of Apollo in Dclphos, and the treasuryof Hyrieus. In the wall of this treasury they placed onestone in such a manner, that they could take it out when≠ever they pleased; and in consequence of this, they wereperpetually carrying away some part of the deposited trea-fsure. This silled Hyrieus with astonishment, as he foundthat the locks and seals had not been moved, and yet theamount of his wealth was perpetually diminished. Onthe vessels, therefore, in which his money was deposited,he fixed traps, or something of this kind, by which any≠one that attempted to touch the money might be imme≠diately caught. Hence Agamedes, when he entered thetreasury, was held fast in the snare : and Trophonius fear≠ing lest, when it was day, his brother would be forced bytorments to confess that he was his associate in the theft,cut off the head of Agamedes. After this Trophonius was*swallowed up in an opening of the earth, in the groveof Lebadea, where there is a ditch, which is called after^Agamedes^ with a pillar raised ov$r it. Ascalaphus and



G ^ laimenur^



 THE DESCRIPTION



Ialmenus, who are said to have been the sons of Mars byAstyoche, the daughter of Actor, the grand-daughter ofAxeus, and the great grand-daughter of Clymenus, reignedover the Orchomenians. Th^e Orchomenians were led bythese two against; Troy; partook of the expedition of thesons of Codrus to Ionia; and being driven from theircountry by the Thebans, recovered it again by the assistanceof Philip the son of Amyntas. A divine power, how≠ever, always caused their affairs to verge to an imbecilcondition.



CHAP. XXXVIII.



Among the Orchomenians there is a temple of Bac≠chus, and a most, ancient temple of the Graces. Theyvenerate in a most eminent degree certain stones, whichthey fay fell from heaven, and were taken up by Eteocles.But the adorned statues, or those which are artificiallymade, and which are of stone, were dedicated in my time.The Orchomenians top have a fountain, which deservesto be inspected ; and into which they descend for the pur≠pose of drawing water. But the treasury of Minyas is notinferior to any of the wonderful productions of Grecianart. It is built of stone, is of a round figure, and its topdoes not raise itself to a very flmrp point. They say thatthe topmost stone holds together the whole building.There are likewise sepulchres here of Minyas and Hesiod:and they fay that they came to possess the bones of Hefiod,by the following means: A pestilence once raging in theircountry to the destruction of men and caUle, they sent certain



OF GREECE. 



certain persons, who are called Speculators, to the Delphicgod, who gave them an oracle, signifying that they mustbring the bones of Heliod from the Naupactian to the Or-chomenian land, and that this would be the only means offreeing them from their malady. But upon their again inter≠rogating the god, in what part of the Naupactian land thebones were deposited, the Pythian deity answered them,*hat a crow would shew them. As the messengers there≠fore were proceeding on their journey, they saw not farfrom the road a crow sitting on a stone; and in the hol≠low of this stone they found the bones of Hesiod, withthe following inscription on the tomb:



*' The senile Ascra is the native land¬£ Hesiod, but the Miny√¶, fkill'd to tameThe warlike need, his bones possess. His fameTrtie wisdom's votaries, of discernment nice,Through all th' Argolic land have widely spread."



With respect to Actxon, a report is circulated amongthe Orchomenians, that their land was injured by meansof a spectre, which sat on a stone; and that on their con≠sulting the Delphic oracle about it, they were ordered bythe god to bury any remains of Actxon which they mighthappen to find; and besides this, to make a brazen imagepf the spectre, and fasten it with iron to the stone. Andthis statue I have seen. They perform too every yearfuneral sacrifices to Act√¶on. The temple of Hercules, inwhich there is a statue not large, is distant from Qrcho*menus about seven stadia. The fountains of the riverMelan are in this place ; and this river runs into the lakeCephiflis. This lake occupies a great part of the Orcho-rnenian land; and during the winter, through the vehe-,pent blowing of the south-wind, \he water spreads over



a con≠



po THE DESCRIPTION



a considerable part of the country. The Thebans fay, that!the river Cephissus was turned by Hercules into the Orcho-menian plains; and that prior to this it ran into the sea,under a mountain ; hut that Hercules closed up the chasm.Homer indeed knew of the lake Cephissis, but he doesnot fay that it was the work of Hercules. For thus hespeaks concerning it:



"Inclining o'er the lake Cephiffis"



Nor is it probable, that the chasm was not discovered bythe 'Orchomenians, and that Hercules, by separating it,restored to the river its ancient passage, since even in theTrojan times they were in, no want of money. Thisis evident from what Homer represents Achilles sayingin answer to the ambassadors of Agamemnon:



"Not all the wealth Orchomenus receives."



It is clear from hence, that the Orchomenians were sup≠plied with gTeat riches at that time. But, as they fay, As-plcdcn was then deprived of inhabitants through scarcityof water. They add, that the city was denominated fromAspledon, who was the son of Neptune by the nymphMidea. This account is confirmed by the verses whichthey fay were made by Cherfias the Orchomcnian:



"Afpktlen, in an ample city bern,



Fr^m Neptune and th' illustrious Mida sorting."



The verses however of this Cherfias are not now extant iand the above lines ere cited by Calippus in his orationon the Orchomeni.ms. They likewise assert, that theepigram on the sepulchre of HeGod was composed byCherfias.



CHAP,



OF GREECE,



CHAP. XXXIX.



Th E Phocenses border on the Orchomenians in thatpart which is near the mountains: but Lebadea borderson them in that part in which the plains arc situated.This city was formerly built in the more elevated part ofthe country, and was called Midea from the mother ofAspledon. But when Lebadus came from Athens, andsettled here, the inhabitants descended into the plains, andfrom him the city was called Lebadea. They neitherhowever know who his father was, nor on what accounthe came hither. They only know that his wife was Nice.This city is adorned in every respect similar to the mostflourishing cities of Greece. The grove of Trophonius isseparated from it: and they say that Hercyna, playing inthis place with the daughters of Ceres, unwillingly let agoose fall out of her hands, which afterwards fled into aCavern, and concealed itself under a stone: that Proser≠pine came into the cavern, and took the bird from underthe stone: and that in the place where she had moved thestone water burst forth, which became a river, denomi≠nated from this circumstance Hercyna. Near the banksof this river there is a temple of Hercyna; and in it thereis a statue of a virgin holding a goose in her hands. Thefountains of the river are in the cavern, torether withstatues in an upright position: and dragons are rolledround the sceptres of these statues. Any one would beinclined to conjecture, that these are the statues of √Üscu≠lapius and Hygia; but they may be the statues of Tro≠phonius



 THE DESCRIPTION



phonius and Hercyna, as they arc of opinion, that dragon^are no less sacred to Trophonius than to √Üsculapius.Near the river too there is a sepulchre of Arcesilau*.They say that Leitus brought the bones of Arcesilaus fromTroy. But the most remarkable particulars in the groveare a temple of Trophonius, and a statue, which may beconjectured to be that of √Üsculapius. This statue wasmade by Praxiteles. There is also a temple here of CeresEuropa: and in the open air there is a temple of JupiterPluvius,



As you ascend to the place from which the oracleis given, and pass on to the anterior part of the moun≠tain, you will fee a temple of Proserpine the huntressand Jupiter the king. This temple, either through itsmagnitude, or through unceasing wars, was left halffiniQied. In another temple which stands here there arestatues of Saturn, Juno, and Jupiter. There is also inthis place a temple of Apollo. With respect to what per≠tains to this oracle, when any one desires to descend intothe ca*e of Trophonius, he must first take up his resiidence for a certain number of days in a building destinedto this purpose. This building is a temple of the GoodDamon, and of Guod Fortune. While he stays here he pu≠rifies himself in other respects, and abstains from hotbaths. The river Hercyna is used by him for a bath:and he is well supplied with animal food from the vic≠tims which are sacrificed. For he who descends hither,sacrifices to Trophonius and his sons; to Apollo, Sa≠turn, and Jupiter the king; to Juno the rhariot drhi-rtand to Ceres, whom they call Europa, and who theyfay was the nurse of Trophonius. A diviner in presentto each of the sacrifices, who inspects the entrails of th^.



victims!



OF GREECE. 



victims, and while he beholds them, prophesies whether ornot Trophonius will propitiously receive the person whoconsults him. The other victims do not in a similar mannerdisclose the mind of Trophonius: but each person whodescends to him, sacrifices, on the night in which he de≠scends, a ram in a ditch, invoking at the fame time Aga-medes. They pay no regard to the former entrails, eventhough they should be favourable, unless the entrails ofthis ram are likewise auspicious. And when it happensthat the entrails thus correspond in signification, then theperson that wishes to consult Trophonius descends withgood hope, and in the following manner: The facrificersbring him by night to the river Hercyna; there theyanoint him with oil; and two boys belonging to the city,each about thirteen years old, and whom they call Mer≠curies, wash him, and supply him with every thing ne≠cessary.



He is not immediately after this led by the facrificersto the oracle, but is first brought to the fountains of theriver, which are very near to each other. Here he isobliged to drink of that which is called the water of Lethe,that he may become oblivious of all the former objects ofhis pursuit. Afterwards he must drink of another water,which is called the water of Mnemosyne, or memory, thathe may remember the objects which will .present them≠selves to his view on descending into the grove. Havingtherefore beheld the statue, which they say was made byD√¶dalus (and which the priests never shew to any butthose who desire to consult Trophonius), performed cer≠tain religious ceremonies, and prayed, he proceeds to theoracle clothed in white linen, begirt with fillets, andhaving on his feet such flippers as arc worn by the na≠



tives



 THE DESCRIPTION



tives of this place. The oracle is above the grove iri mountain, and is inclosed with a wall of white stone,whose circumference is very small, and whose altitude isnot more than two cubits. Two obelisks are raised onthis wall, which, as well as the zones that hold them to≠gether, are of brass. Between these there are doors: andwithin the inclosure there is a chasm of the earth, whichwas not formed by nature, but was made by art, and isexcavated in according proportion with consummate ac≠curacy and (kill. The shape of this chasm resembks thatof an oven. Its breadth, measured diametrically, may beconjectured to be about sour cubits. Its depth does notappear to me more than eight cubits. There are notsteps to its bottom: but when any one designs to descendto Trophonius, they give him a ladder, which is bothnarrow and light. On descending into this chasm, be≠tween its bottom and summit there is a small cavern, th¬´breadth of which is about two spans, and its altitude apjpears to be about one span.



He, therefore, who descends to the bottom of thischasm lays himself down on the ground, and holdingin his hand sops mingled with honey, first of all placeshis feet in the small cavern, then hastens to join his kneesto his feet; and immediately after the reft of his bodycontracted to his knees, is drawn within the cavern, justas if he was hurried away by the vortex of the largestand most rapid river. But those that have descended tdthe adytum of this place are not all instructed in thesecrets of futurity in the fame manner. For one obtainsthis knowledge by his sight, and another by his hearing:but all return through the fame opening, and walk back*wards as they return. They fay no one that descended



hers



 



OF GREECE. $



here ever died in the chasm, except one os the spear-bearers of Demetrius, who would not perform any of theestablished religious ceremonies, and who did not comehither for the purpose of consulting divinity, but that hemight enrich himself by carrying the gold and silver fromthe adytum. It is also said, that his dead body was thrownup by a different avenue, and not through the sacred open≠ing.- Other reports are circulated about this man, butthose which I have mentioned appear to me to be themost remarkable. When the person that descended toTrophonius returns, the sacrisicers immediately place himon a throne, which they call the throne of Mnemosyne,and which stands not far from the adytum. Then they askhim what he has either seen or heard, and afterwards de≠liver him to certain persons appointed for this purpose,who bring him to the temple of Good Fortune, and theGood D√¶mon, while he is yet full of terror, and with≠out any knowledge either of himself, or of those that arenear him. Afterwards, however, he recovers the use of hijreason, and laughs just the fame as before. / write this,not from hearsay, but from -what I have seen happen to others,end from -what I experienced myself, -when I consulted themracle of Trophinius. All too that return from Trophoniusare obliged to write in a table whatever they have eitherheard or seen: and even at present the shield of Aristp-menes remains in this place, the particulars respectingwhich I have already related.



CHAP.



 



$ THE DESCRIPTION



CHAP. XL.



T*H E B≈ìotians became acquainted with this oracle, ofwhich they were before entirely ignorant, by the follow≠ing means: In consequence of a great want of rain forthe space of two years, they sent Speculators from eachcity to Delphos: These, imploring a remedy against, thedrought which they laboured under, the Pythian deityordered to go to Trophonius in Lebaderij and find relieffrom him. But when they came to Lebadea, and couldnot find the oracle, one Saon an Acraiphnian, who waSthe oldest of the Speculators, happened to fee a swarmof bees, and followed them to their hive. Perceiving,therefore, that they flew into this chasm of the earth, hefollowed them, and by this means found the oracle whichhe sought. They say, that this Saon was instructed byTrophonius in all the sacred ceremonies belonging to thisoracle.



Of the works of D√¶dalus there are two among theB≈ìotians ; a statue of Hercules belonging to the Thebans,and of Trophonius belonging to the Lebadenscs. Thereare the fame number of wooden statues in Crete, viz.Britomartis in Olus, and Minerva among the Gnoflians.Befideu these, too, they have a representation of the danceof Ariadne, which is mentioned by Homer in the Iliad;and this is made of white stone. Among the Delianslikewise there is a wooden statue of Venus not largo, theright hand of which is decayed through length of rime rand this statue stands on a square figure instead of feet.-



lam



OF GREECE; -)



I am persuaded that Ariadne received this statue fromD√¶dalus, and that when she followed Theseus, she tookit along with her. The Delians fay, that Theseus, whenAriadne was taken from him, dedicated this wooden statueof Venus to the Delian Apollo, that he might not bytaking it home with him be reminded of his lost wife,and by this recollection continually experience new tor≠ments of love. I do not know that any other works ofD√¶dalus besides these remain. For those works of his‚ñ†which the Argives dedicated in the temple of Juno, andthose which were brought to Gela in Sicily from Om-phace, have all been destroyed by time. The Chxronensesare next to the Lebadenses. The city of these people wasformerly called Arne: and they fay that Ame was thedaughter of √Üolus, and that from her another city inTheflaly is denominated. They add, that the present nameof the Ch√¶ronenses was derived from Ch√¶ron the son ofApollo by Thero the daughter of Phylas : and this is con≠firmed by the author of the poem called the Great Eoe√¶,in the following verses: ,



"In wedlock with Deiphile conjoin'd,



Daughter of lolaus the renown'd,



And in whole person godlike beauties shene,



Phylas, in his august abodes begat



A son mm'd Ippotus, with Thero fair,



In form resembling Phaebe- splendid light:



And Thero from Apollo, Ch√¶ron bore,



Of mighty strength, and ikill'd the steed to tame." ‚Ä¢



It appears to me, too, that Homer knew that Chxroneawas called Lebadea, but that he chose to denominate itby its ancient name ‚Ä¢, in the fame manner as he calls theAfrican river √Ügyptus, and not Nile.Vol. III. H But



o& THE DESCRIPTION



But among the Ch√¶ronenses there are two trophies,which were raised by the Romans and Sylla, when theyvanquished Taxilus and the army of Mithridates. Philip,however, the son of Amyntas, neither raised any trophyat Chxronca, nor for any victories which he gained overcither Greeks or Barbawans. For it was not an establishedcustom with the Macedonians, to leave trophies as monu≠ments cf their victories. It is said too by the Macedo≠nians, that Caranus, when he reigned iii Macedonia, havingvanquished in battle Cisseus, who governed the countrybordering on the Macedonians, raised a trophy after themanner of the Argives. But they add, that a lion rushingfrom Olympus, threw down and destroyed the trophy.That Caranus was conscious he had not acted prudently,because by raising this trophy he had occasioned an irrecon-cileablc enmity with his neighbours; and that afterwardsneither Caranus nor any of his successors raised a trophy,that t'^.ey might at some suture time attract to themselvesthe benevolence of the neighbouring people. Alexanderconfirms the truth of this account, because he neitherraised a trophy for his victories over Darius, nor for hisconquest of the Indies. Near this city there is a com≠mon sepulchre of those Thebans that fell in the engage≠ment against Philip. There is no inscription on the tomb,but a lion stands on it, which may be supposed to signifythe great vehemence os these men in fight. But it ap≠pears to me that there is no inscription on the sepulchre,because the D√¶mon did not permit the consequences ofthdv courage to be such as might be expected. TheChx'.onc^ins venerate, above all die gods, the sceptre whichHomer says Vulcan made for Jupiter. This sceptre



Hermes



OF GREECE. 



Hermes received from Jupiter, and gave to Pelops; Pe-Jops left it to Atreus; Atreus to Thyestes; and ,fromThyestes it came to Agamemnon. This sceptre too theydenominate the spear; and indeed that it contains some≠thing of a nature more divine than usual, is evident fromhence, that a certain splendor is seen proceeding from it.TheChaeroneans fay, that this sceptre was found in the bor≠ders of the Panopeans in Phocis, and together with it aquantity of gold ; and that they cheerfully took the sceptreinstead of the gold. I am persuaded that it was broughtby Electra the daughter of Agamemnon to Phocis. Thereis nor however any temple publicly raised for this sceptre,but every year the person to whose care this sacred sceptreis committed, places it in a building destined to this pur≠pose; and the people sacrifice to it every day, and placenear it a table full of all kinds of flesh and sweetmeats.



CHAP. XLI.



Of all the works indeed of Vulcan, which are cele≠brated by poets, and praised by the rest of mankind, thissceptre of Agamemnon is the only thing which deservesour belies. For the Lycians, who shew in Patar√¶ in thetemple os Apollo a brazen bowl, which they say was de≠dicated by Telephus, and made by Vulcan, are ignorantthat the Samians, Theodorus, and Rhoecus were thefirst brass-founders. The Achaian Patrenses, too, pretendthat the chest which Eurypylus brought from Troy wasmade by Vulcan, but in reality they have no such cheltto sliew. In Cyprus there is a city called Amathus j and



H  la



soo THE DESCRIPTION



in it there is an ancient temple of Adonis and Venus.They fay, that in this temple there is a necklace whichwas given by Harmonia at first; but that it came to becalled the necklace of Eriphyle, because she receivedit'as a cist from her husband. Afterwards the sons ofPhegeus dedicated it at Delphi. But how it came to these,we have shewn in our account of the Arcadian affairs.And last of all it was taken away by the Phoc√¶an ty≠rants. However, it does not appear to me, that the neck≠lace, which the Amathufians possess in the temple ofAdonis, belonged to Eriphyle, as this necklace in Ama-thus is composed of green stones set in gold  and Homer,.in the Odyssey, says that the necklace which was given to‚ñ†Eriphyle was made of gold:



‚ñ† "There Eriphyle weeps, who lonselv sold-Hor lorJ, her honour, for the lust of gold."



And yet Homer was not ignorant that there are variouskinds of necklaces. For in the speeches of Eum√¶us toUlysses, before the arrival of Telemachus from Pylus, thereare the following lines:



"An artist to my father's palace came,"With gold and a:nber chains, elab'rate frame.''



And among the gifts which Penelope received from thesuitors, he fays that Eurymachus gave her a necklace:



A necklace rich with gold, with amber gav,That sliot effulgence like the solar rav,Eurymachus presents.-



But he does not fay that Eriphyle received a necklace variedwith gold and stones. So that it is probable that thissceptre is the only thing among all these that was made



OF GREECE. loic



by Vulcan. Above the city Chxronea there is a preci≠pice, which is called Petrachos. They are of opinionthat Saturn was in this place deceived by Rhea, when heswallowed a stone, instead of Jupiter. On the summit ofthe mountain there is a small statue of Jupiter. In thispart of Ch√¶ronea the inhabitants make an ointment, byboiling together roses, lilies, narcissuses, and the herb iris,orszvord-grass : and this is a remedy against pain. If, in≠deed, you anoint wooden statues with the ointment ofroses, you will preserve them from rottenness. The irisgrows in marshy places, and is equal in size to the lily;but its colour is not white, and it does not emit so strongan odour as the lily.



BOOK



^ei THE DESCRIPTION



BOOK X.



p h o e i c s,



CHAP. I.



It is evident that that part of Phocis which is aboutTithorea and Delphos, received its appellation^ from themost ancient times, from the Corinthian Phocus, who wasthe son of Qrnytion. Not many years however after^when the √Üginet√¶ with Phocus the son of √Üacus landedin these parts, the whole country which remains at pre≠sent came to be called Phocis. But the Phocenses thatare opposite to Peloponnesus, and those that dwell nearBceotia, and border on the sea, are situated between Cirrha,a haven of the Delphi, and the city Anticyra. For theLocri Hypocnemidii, who dwell beyond this part of Phocis,prevent the Phocenses from settling near the sea, whichcontains the Lamiacan bay. The Scarphenses are beyondElatea; and beyond Hyampolis are the Abantes, who in≠habit Opus, and Cynus the haven of the Opuntians. Themost illustrious public transactions of the Phocenses arethese : They engaged in the war against Troy ; and led anarmy against the Thessalians, prior to the irruption of the Persian^



(OF GREECE. 



Persians into Greece; at which time they accomplishedthe following memorable exploit. In that part of Hyam-polis, in which they were informed by their spies theThassalian horse intended to attack them, they dug upcertain earthen urns, aiul, covering them with earth,waited the approach of the enemy. The Thessalians,therefore, being ignorant of the stratagem of the Pho-censes, drove their horses On the urns, whose feet beingby this means either entangled or broken, their riderswere thrown off and cut to pieces by the Phocenses. Butthe Thesialians, in consequence of this, being more enragedwith the Phocenses than before, collected an army fromall their cities, and again attacked the Phocenses, whowere very much terrified, both with the other warlikepreparations of the Thesialians, and particularly with themultitude of their horse, because the Thesialians not onlysurpassed them in the number of their cavalry, but in theart of managing their horses in war.



The PhocenCes therefore sent to Delphos, and enquiredof the god how they might avoid the impending danger.And the messengers brought back the following oracle:*' I fliall cause a mortal and a god to contend with eachother: and I will give the victory to both, and anothervictory to the mortal." Ac soon as the Phocenses receivedthis oracle, they sent thre% hundred chosen men led byGelo against the enemy, and ordered them,as soon as it wasnight, to watch in the most secret manner possible themotions of the Thesialians, to return afterwards to theircamps, and not to engage unless they were forced to it.The whole of this chosen troop, together with its leader,perished, being trampled under foot by the Thessalianhorses, and slain by the enemy. This slaughter occasionedH  such



io THE DESCRIPTION



such a terror in the camp of the Phocenses, that theyhastily collected together their wives, children, and all theproperty they were able either to drive or take away,together with their apparel, gold, silver, and statues of thegods. After this they raised a very large funeral pile, andlest with it thirty men, whom they ordered to cut thethroats of the women and children, burn all the propertythat was collected on the funeral pile, and afterward*either murder each other, or rush on the Theflalian horse,if the Phocenses should happen to be vanquished in theengagement. In consequence of this command, all in≠human counsels came to be called by the Greeks, Phodcdesperation.



Immediately after this the Phocenses marched againstthe Thessalians, choosing for the commander of their horseRhoecus Ambryflensis, and of their foot Da'i'phanes theHyampolitan. But he who held the most honourable placeamong the commanders was the Elean prophet Tellias,in whom the Phocenses placed the hopes of their safety.As scon therefore as the engagement began, the Pho≠censes recollecting what they had determined respectingtheir wives and children, perceived that their safety wasvery uncertain, and for their fakes engaged in every kindof daring undertaking. The signification too of the en≠trails gave them the highest reason to hope-that the godswould be propitious to them. And indeed they obtaineda victory of the most splendid kind; in consequence ofwhich the oracle os Apollo, which was given to the Pho≠censes, was understood by all the Creeks. For the privateword was given at the fame time to eacli army: to theTheisalians, Minerva Itonia but to the Phocenses, Phocus,from whom they derived their name. In consequence of



having



OF GREECE. 



having gained this victory, the Phocenses sent gifts to theDolphic Apollo, viz. a statue of the god, and of Tellias whowas at that time the prophet, together with statues of thecommanders and heroes of their own country. And allthese were made by the Argive Aristomedon. The Phocen≠ses too after this were not wanting in subtility of invention.For the camps of the enemy once happening to be fixednear the entrance to Phocis, five hundred chosen menof the Phocenses, as soon as the moon had completed herorb, attacked the Thessalians in the night, having rubbedtheir bodies over with plaster, and likewise their armour,which by this means became white. They fay, that atthis time a great slaughter was made of the Thessalians,who thought that what they saw in the night was some≠thing divine, and not the result of the enemy's craft. Butit was the Elean Tellias who invented this stratagem,against the Thessalians. When the army too of the Per≠sians passed over into Europe, it is said that the Phocenseswere forced to join themselves to Xerxes ; but that after≠wards they deserted the party of the Medes, and foughton the side of the Greeks in the battle at Plat√¶a.



CHAP. II.



In after times, however, they were fined by the Am-phictyons. But I have not been able to find the true rea≠son of this event taking place; whether it arose from thePhocenses having acted unjustly, or whether the Thessa≠lians, on account of their ancient hatred to the Phocenses,were the occasion of their being fined. But when they



were



io THE DESCRIPTION



were in a very desponding condition through the mag¬´nitude of the fine, Philomelas the son of Theotimus,who was not inferior in nobility to any of the Pho≠cenfes, and whoic country was Ledon a Phocic city,shewed them that it was impossible for them to pay thefine, and persuaded them to plunder the temple ofthe Delphic Apollo. Amon¬£ other arguments whichhe offered in order to effect this, he informed them,that the affairs of the Athenians, and Lacedxmonianswere in a condition very well adapted to the executionof this design and that if the Thebans or any other na≠tion should make war upon them, they might easily van≠quish their enemies, both by their own valour, and themoney which they would be enabled to expend. Thisspeech of Philomelus was favourably received by the mul≠titude of the Phocenfes, whether some god perverted theirunderstandings or whether these people naturally preferredgain to piety. The Phocenfes therefore plundered thetemple of Apollo, when Heraclides governed the Delphi,and Agathocles was the Athenian aichonj and in thefourth year of the one hundred and fifth Olympiad, inwhich the Cyren√¶an Prorus was victorious. After thisthey collected together a very powerful army of merce≠nary soldiers; and the Thebans openly declared war againstthem, in consequence of being at variance with themprior to this event.



-This war lasted for ten years; and during the conti≠nuance of it, the Phocenfes with their mercenary troopswere sometimes victorious, and this was often the cafewith the Thebans. But an engagement taking place nearshe city Neon, the Phocenfes were put to flight, and inthis flight Philwnelus hurled himsejf from a precipice,



OF GREECE. 



and by this means destroyed himself j and all that fol≠lowed him were punished by the Amphictyons with thefame kind of death. After the death of Philomelus thePhocenfes gave the government to Onomarchus t but Philipthe son of Amyntas joined himself to theThebans, and inthe engagement which ensued vanquished the enemy.Onomarchus therefore flying to the sea, was pierced todeath by the arrows of his own soldiers, who accused histimidity and ignorance in war, as the causes of theirhaving been vanquished. And such was the end whichthe D√¶mon gave to die life of Onomarchus. The Pho≠cenfes, after this, invested his brother Phayllus with thesupreme authority. But he had scarcely begun his reign,when he saw the following vision in a dream : Among thegifts sacred to Apollo there was an ancient brazen imageof a man, whose flesh had been consumed by disease, andwhose bones alone remained. The Delphi fay that this wasdedicated by Hippocrates the physician. Phayllus in adream saw himself resembling this image; and immedi≠ately after was seized with a tabid disease, which folfilledthe prediction os his dream. In consequence of this event, taking place, the supreme authority was given to Pha-l√¶cus the son of Phayllus; but he lost his kingdomthrough appropriating the sacred wealth to his own pri≠vate purposes. After this he sailed to Crete with suchof the Phocenfes as embraced his party, and besieged witha band of mercenary troops the city Cydonia, because theinhabitants would not pay him the money which'he de≠manded. He lost however in this siege a great part ofhis army, and was himself slain.



CHAP.



joS THE DESCRIPTION



S



CHAP. III.



In the tenth year after the temple was plundered, Philipbrought this war which is called Phocic and sacred toan end. At that time Theophilus was the Athenianarchon, and it was the first year of the one hundred andeighth Olympiad, in which the Cyren√¶an Polycles wasvictor in the stadium. The following Phociean citieswere then taken, and levelled with the ground, viz. Lilaea,Hyampolis, Anticyra, Parapotamii, Panopeus, and Daulis.The names of these cities were renowned in former times,and afe celebrated in no small degree in the poems ofHomer. But the Phoc√¶an cities Erochus, Charadra,Amphiclea, Neon,Tethronium, and Drym√¶a, which wereburnt by the army of Xerxes, became through this cir≠cumstance more known to the Greeks. All the othercities except Elatea were obscure prior to this war, viz.the Phocic Thracis, Medeon, Phocicus, Echedamia, Ara-brysus, Ledon, Phlygonium, and Sterrhis. All these citieswhich we have enumerated were then destroyed, and, ex≠cept Abas, were reduced to the form of villages. For theAb√¶ans were free from the impiety of the other cities,and had neither plundered the temple of Apollo, nor en≠gaged in the war. The Phoccnses too are forbidden theuse of the Delphic temple, are not admitted as membersof the general assembly of the Greeks, aud the Amphic-tyons have taken from them the privilege of voting, andtransferred it to the Macedonians. Some time after thisthe Phocrean cities were rebuilt, and the Phocenses rc-i turned.



OF GREECE. 



turned from their villages to their pristine habitations.We must however except those cities which, by reasonof their imbecility from the first, and their indigence atthat time, could not be rebuilt. The Athenians and The-bans, prior to the loss of the Greeks at Chacronca, werethe leaders of this restoration. The Phocenses likewisepartook of the engagement at Ch√¶ronea, and afterwards,at Lamia and Cranon, sought against Antipater and theMacedonians. They opposed too the Gauls and the Celticarmy, with greater alacrity than the rest of the Greeks,that they might revenge the injury which had been offeredto the Delphic Apollo, and, as it appears to me, that theymight apologize for their pristine guilt. And such arcthe memorable transactions of the Phocenses.



C H A P. IV.



t ROM Chxronca there is a road of twenty stadia inlength, which leads to Pancpeus, a city of the Phocenses,if it be proper to call that a city in which there is neithera governor, nor a gymnasium, nor a theatre, nor a forum,nor, lastly, any fountain of water. The inhabitants dwellin wooden houses, resembling the cottages in mountains,and these are situated near a chasm made by a torrent.They have boundaries too which separate them fromtheir neighbours; and they send members to the Phocicconvention. They fay that their city was denominatedfrom the father of Epeus, and that they were at first thePhlegyse, and fled to Phocis from theOrchomenians. I haveseen the ancient inclosure of Panopea, which, I conjecture,



is



no THE DESCRIPTION



is about seven stadia in circumference. While I was sur≠veying it, those verses of Homer respecting Tityus cameinto my mind, in which he calls the city of the Pano-peans Callichoros, or delighting in the dance. I likewise re≠collected, that in the contest for the dead body of Pa-troclus, he fays, that Schedius the son of Iphitus, and kingof the Phocenses, who was slain by Hector, dwelt inPanopeus. It appears to me, that the cause of his dwellinghere was his fear of the B≈ìotians (for Phocis in this partis very much exposed to the attacks of the B≈ìotians),and that he used Panopeus as a place of defence. I was*iot however able to conjecture why Homer called Pano≠peus Callichoros, till I learnt the reason from those Athe≠nians who are called Thyades. These Thyades are Atticwomen, who every year come to Parnassus, and, togetherwith Delphic women, celebrate the orgies of Bacchus.It is an established custom with the Thyades, to formchoirs in the road from Athens, in other places, and amongthe Panopcans. Homer, therefore, by the appellationPanopeus, appears to signify the choir of the Thyades.



In the public road of the Panopeans there is a buildingof crude tiles, and in it a statue of Pentelican stone, whichsome say is the statue of √Üsculapius, and others of Pro≠metheus. These last think their opinion is confirmedfrom hence : Near the chasm formed by the torrent, thereare stones of such a magnitude that each is sufficient toload a cart. These stones are of the colour of clay, yetnot of such clay as is dug out of the earth, but of suchas is found among the gravel of rivers and torrents. Thesestones too smell very much like a human body \ and theysay that these are the remains of that clay, from whichthe whole race of mankind was fashioned by Prometheus.



In



OF GREECE. m



In the same place, viz near the chasm os the torrent,there is a sepulchre of Tityus: and the circumference ofthe heap of earth which forms his tomb is about onethird of a Radium. But of Tityus it h said in theOdyssey!



"There Tityus large and long, in fetters bound,O'erspreads nine acres of infernal ground.'



They fay, that this verse does not allude to the magnitudeof Tityus, but to the place in which he lies buried, andwhich is nine acres in extent. But Cleon, one of thoseMagnesians -that dwell about Hermus, fays that thingsof a very wonderful nature must be incredible to thosewho, during the whole course of their life, never beheldany thing which surpasses the conceptions of the vulgar.He adds, that he is persuaded both Tityus and otherswere really as large as they are reported to have been.For, fays he, I once went to Gades, and sailed with allthe company of my attendants from that island, agreeablyto the command of Hercules. But afterwards returningto Gades, I found a marine man thrown up on the shore,who had been burnt by lightning, and whose magnitudeWa> not less than five acres.



But Df.ulis is about seven stadia distant from Panopeus.This city does not contain many inhabitants; but thosewhich it does contain, surpass all the Phocenses in mag≠nitude and strength of body. They fay, that the citywas denominated from the nymph Daulis, who was thedaughter of Cephissus. It is also said by others, that theplace where the city stands was formerly full of trees,and that the ancients called Things dense or dose, daula.Hence, fay they, √Üschylus calls the beard of Glaucus



Anthe- -



m THE DESCRIPTION



Anthedonius, daubs, or thick. In this city the womenare said to have feasted Tereus with the body of his son $and the polluted tables of mankind originated from hence.But the hoopoop, into which they fay Tereus was changed,is a'bird not larger than a quail, and has wings on itshead which resemble crests. It is a wonderful circum≠stance that, in this country, swallows neither breed, norlay eggs, nor build their nests on the roofs of houses.The Phocenses fay, that when Philomela was changedinto a bird, she flew from the country of Tereus throughfear of him. But the Daulienscs have a temple of Minerva,in which there is an ancient statue of the goddess. Itlikewise contains a more ancient wooden statue, whichthey fay Procne brought from Athens. A place calledThronius forms a part of the Daulian land: and- in thisplace there is an heroic monument, dedicated to that herofrom whom the people here derived their origin. Somefay, that this hero was Xanthippus, a man of no obscurereputation in warlike affairs: but others are of opinion,that he was Phocus the son of Ornytion, and the grand≠son of Sisyphus. This hero they venerate every day; andafter they have slain the victims which they sacrifice tohim, they pour the blood through a hole into the se-,pulchre, and consume the entrails in the fame place.There is an eminence in Daulis, by which you mayascend to the summits of mount Parnassus. This road islonger, but not so difficult as that at Delphos, whichleads to the fame summits.



CHAP.



OF GREECE.



CHAP. V.



On again turning from Daulis, and proceeding in astraight line to Delphos, you will fee on the left handa building which they call Phocicon, and into which thePhocenfes from each of their cities assemble. This build≠ing is very large ; and in it there are pillars placed accord≠ing to its length. From the pillars too there are steps toeach of its walls: and on these steps' the Phocenfes fitwhen they assemble. But near the extremity of the build≠ing there are neither pillars nor steps. There is how≠ever here a statue of Jupiter sitting on a throne; and onhis right hand there is a statue of Juno, and on his leftof Minerva. Proceeding from hence, .you will arrive ata road which they call Schifte, or cut; and in this roadOedipus murdered his father. Indeed, every part ofGreece contains some monument of the calamities ofOedipus. For as soon as he was born, his parents boredthe soles of his feet, and exposed him on the mountainCithasron belonging to the Plat√¶cnfes. Corinth, and thecountry about the Isthmus, educated him. Phocis, andthe road Schiste, were polluted with his father's blood.And the Thebans are rendered infamous by the mar≠riages of Oedipus, aud the base conduct of Eteocles-Howevcr, the daring action of Oedipus in the road Schistewas tthe origin of all his calamities. The sepulchres of,and the servants that followed him, are in themiddle of a place where, three roads meet, and selectstones are piled in a heap over them. They fay, thatDarnisistratus, when he reigned over the Platseenfes, metVol. III. I with



U THE DESCRIPTION



with these dead bodies, and buried them. There is a publicroad steep and difficult to a light-armed soldier, whichleads from hence to Dclphos. Many things indeed arereported of the Delphi, and particularly concerning theoracle of Apollo. For they fay that this oracle is themost ancient of any on the earth, that Daphne was chosenby Earth, priestess of the oracle, and that she was oneof the nymphs that inhabit mountains.



But the Greeks have a piece of poetical composition,which they call Eumolpra, and the author of which, theysay, was Mus√¶us the son of Antiophemus. In this poemit is asserted that there is an oracle in common of Nep≠tune and Earth; that Earth delivered her oracles fromher own mouth ; but that Neptune had Pyrcon for his in≠terpreter. The verses respecting this affair are these:



"From her own mouth Earth utter'd prudent words,But Pyrcon was illustrious Neptune's priest."



They fay, that afterwards Earth gave her part of the oracleto Themis; but Themis to Apollo; and that Apollo re≠ceived the other part from Neptune, in return for whichhe gave Neptune the island Calaurea which is situated be≠fore Trcezen. I have also heard it asserted, that certain shep≠herds who once happened to come to the oracle, becamedivinely inspired from the vapour of the earth, and pro≠phesied through the influence of Apollo. But Phemonoearrived at the highest degree of celebrity, as being thefirst prophetess of the god, and the first that fang anhexameter verse. Boeo, a woman who was a native ofDclphos, and who composed a hymn for the Delphi,says, that both others that came from the Hyperboreans,and Olen, built a place for the oracle of Apollo j and that,



Olea



 



OF GREECE. 



Olen was the first who prophesied at Delphos, and de≠livered oracles in hexameter verses. The following arethe verses of Boeo:



"Here Pagafus, Agyicus the divine,



From th' Hyperboreans, Ph≈ìbus, rais'd to thee



A building, for thine oracle renovvn'd.''



And after she has enumerated other Hyperboreans, to≠wards the end of the hymn, she mentions Olen:



"Olen, the first who Ph≈ìbus' will disclos'd,The first who verses of the ancients fung.''



If we follow tradition, however, women alone were thefirst interpreters of oracles.



They farther report, that the most ancient temple ofApollo was raised from the laurel-tree; and that thebranches from which it was built were cut from that treewhich is at Tempe. The form of this temple resembledthat of a cottage. But the Delphi say, that the othertemple of Apollo was raised by bees from wax and wings,and was sent by Apollo to the Hyperboreans. There is like≠wise another report concerning chis affair, that a Delphosman, whose name was Pteras, built this temple, and thatfrom this circumstance the temple came to be called bythe name of its artificer. From this fame Pteras, too, aCretan city, with the addition of one letter, was denomi≠nated Apterxi. I cannot, however, be induced to be≠lieve that this temple was framed from a herb Pteris, orfern, which grows on mountains, and this while the herbwas yet green. But with respect to the third temple, thereport that it was built of brass, is by no means wonder≠ful, since Acrisius made a brazen bed-chamber for hisdaughter; and even at present there is a temple of Mi-



I  nerva



n THE DESCRIPTION



ncrva among the Laced√¶monians, which, from its beingbuilt of brass, is called Chalkioicos. Among the Romanstoo there is a forum, which is admirable both for its mag≠nitude and ornaments, and which has a brazen roof. Sothat it is not improbable, that there may have been abrazen temple of Apollo. As to the rest, the relations aredoubtless sabulous, either that this temple was built byVulcan, or that golden virgins fang in it, which is assertedby Pindar as follows:



"Suspended from the roof, there golden virgins fang.''



It appears to me, that Pindar invented this fable, in imita≠tion of what Homer fays respecting the Sirens. But nei≠ther do I find that the fame accounts are given of the de≠struction of this temple. Some fay it fell into an openingof the earth; but, according to others, it was destroyed byfire. The fourth temple of Apollo is said to have beenbuilt of stone, by Trophonius and Agamedes: and thiswas burnt when Erxiclides was the Athenian archon, andin the first year of the fifty-eighth Olympiad, in whichDiognetus Crotoniatcs was victor. But the temple whichexists at present was raised by the Aniphictyons out oftheir sacred money ; and its architect was the CorinthianSpintharus.



CHAP. VI.



They lay, too, that a most ancient city was built hereby Parnassus, who was the son of the nymph Cleodora.And just the fame as with respect to others that are called



heroes,



 



OF GREECE. 



heroes, they fay, that his fathers were, of the gods, Nep≠tune, and of men, Cleopompus; and that from him themountain Parnassus and the thicket Parnasiia were deno≠minated. They farther add, that prophecy by the flight ofbirds was invented by this Parnassus; but that the citywhich he built was destroyed by the rain which fell inthe times of Deucalion: that such men as were able tofly from the storm, followed the howlings of wolves, and,with wild beasts for their guides, escaped to the summitsof Parnassus ‚Ä¢, and that from this circumstance they calledthe city which they built there, Lycorea. There is like≠wise another report different from this, that Lycorus wasthe son of Apollo by the nymph Corycia; that from himthe city was called Lycorea: but that the cavern was de≠nominated Coryciun* from the nymph. It is also said,that Cel√¶no was the daughter of Hyamus the son of Ly≠corus; and that Apollo had by her a son Delphos, fromwhom the present name of the city was derived. Othersagain fay, that one Castalius, a native of this city, had adaughter whose name was Thyia, and who was the firstthat officiated as priestess to Bacchus, and celebrated theorgies of the god. That from her, those afterwards thatwere agitated with Bacchic fury came to be called Thyiadai.Hence, they are of opinion that Delphos was the son ofApollo and Thyia. But, according to others, his motherwas Mel√¶ne the daughter of Cephissus.



Some time after this, not only the neighbouring peoplecalled the city Delphos, but likewise Pytho, as is evidentfrom the verses of Homer, in his catalogue of the Pho-censes. Those, however, who are much conversant withgenealogies, fay that Py this was the son of Delphos, andthat from him, while he reigned here, the city was denomi-



 rated.



n THE DESCRIPTION



nated. There is a report too among the vulgar, that acertain inhabitant of this place was pierced with the ar≠rows of Apollo, and that on this account the city was calledPytho, because at that time things which putrefied weresaid p'uthejlhaiy which means to become rotten. Hence Ho≠mer fays, that the island of the Sirens was full of bones,because men that heard their song, eputhotito, i. e. becamerotten. "With respect to the animal that was slain byApollo, the poets fay it was a dragon, to whom Earth hadcommitted the custody of the oracle. It is also said thatCrius, when he reigned in Euboea, had a son of a very in≠solent disposition, who plundered the temple of Apollo,and the dwellings of the rich. But when he was aboutto plunder them a second time with a band of robbers,the Delphi fuppliantly implored Apollo to preserve themfrom the impending danger: and Phemonoe, who was atthat time the prophetess, answered them in hexameterverses to this effect : " In a short time Phoebus will piercewith his arrows a man, the destroyer of Parnassus : but theCretans shall purify their hands from the slaughter, and,the fame of die dead shall never perish."



CHAP. VII.



It appears, indeed, that the temple in Delphos wasfrom the first often plundered by the sacrilegious. Forafter the Eubocan of whom we have just spoken, the na≠tion of the Phlegyans, and Pyrrhus the son of Achilles,plundered it. After these, again it was robbed hy a partof the forces of Xerxes, by the most powerful persons



among



OF GREECE. 



among the Phocenses (who enriched themselves the mostof all others, and for the longest time, with the treasuresof the god), and by the army of the Gauls. And last ofall, this temple could not escape the impiety of Nero, whotook away from hence five hundred brazen images, whichwere partly statues of the gods, and partly of men. Theyrelate, that a most ancient contest was established here,which consisted in singing a hymn in honour of Apollo:and that he who first conquered in singing was the CretanChrysothemis, whose father Carmanor is said to have pu≠rified Apollo. Philammon was the next that was victo≠rious after Chrysothemis ; and Thamyris the son of Phi≠lammon conquered after his father. They fay that Or≠pheus was unwilling to engage in this contest, by reasonof the dignity of his composition relative to the mysteries,and that elevation of foul which he acquired by his otherproductions; and that Mus√¶us would not engage in it,through his imitation of Orpheus in every respect. Theyfay, too, that Eleuther bore away the Pythian palm,through speaking with a loud.and sweet voice, as he wasnot able to sing the song which he had composed. Theylikewise farther relate, that Hesiod was not permittedto contend, because he had not learned to accompany hisharp with his voice: but that Homer came to Delphos forthe purpose of consulting what was necessary to be done;though even if he had learnt to play on the harp, his artwould have been of no use to him, through the loss ofhis sight. In the third year of the forty-eighth Olympiad,in which Glaucias the Crotonian was victor, the Amphic-tyons instituted games, in which there was singing to theharp as at first; and to which they added singing to thepipe, and playing on the pipe without singing. Cephalen



I  the



 THE DESCRIPTION



the son of Lampus was proclaimed victor on the harp;Areas Echembrotus in singing to the pipe; and the ArgivcSacadas in playing on the pipe without singing.



The fame Sacadas too was twice victorious after this,in the Pythian games. And at that time the fame con≠test* were instituted as in the Olympic games, except thecontest with four horses. It was likewise established bylaw, that boys should contend in the long race, and in thetwofold course. After this, Pythian games were insti≠tuted, in which a crown alone was the object of conten≠tion, and in which singing to the pipe was rejected, asnot being pleasing to the car. For elegies and funernldirges are accommodated to the melody of pipes. The,sacred offering of Echembrotus confirms what  have said:for he dedicated in Thebes a brazen tripod to Hercules,with this inscription: Echembrotus Arcas dedicatesthis statue to Hercules, in consequence of having



BEEN VICTORIOUS rN THE CONTESTS OF THE AmPHIC-TYONS, AND THIS BY SINGING AMONG THE GREEKS,



songs and elegies. This was the reason, therefore,why the contest of singing to the pipe ceased. After≠wards they added horse-races, and Clisthenes the Sicyo-nian tyrant was victorious in the chariot-race. In theeighth Pythiad, the contests of those who play on the harp,but do not accompany it with their voice, were instituted;and in this contest Agelaus Tegeates was victorious. Inthe twenty-third Pythiad, the armed course was esta≠blished; and in this Tim√¶nctus tiie Phliasian received thelaurel crown, in five Olympiads after which DemaratusHencensis was victorious. In the forty-eighth Pythirul,the contest with the two-yoked car was adopted; and iuthis the car of Execestides the Phocenlian was victorious,j But



OF GREECE. 



But in the fifth Pythiad from this, they ran with coltsjoined to the car; and in this the sour colts of the ThebanOrphondas gained the victory. They instituted, however,many years after the Eleans, the pancratium among boys,the car drawn by two colts, and the vaulting horse: forthey instituted the pancratium in the sixty-first Pythiad,and in this the Theban Laidas was victorious: but onePythiad after this, they established the course with thevaulting colt; and in the sixty-ninth Pythiad, the cardrawn by two colts. And with the vaulting colt, indeed,the Lariss√¶an Lycormas was victorious; but the Macedo≠nian Ptolemy with the two-yoked car. For the Egyptiankings willingly suffered themselves to be called Macedo≠nians, as indeed they were. But it appears to me, thatthe laurel crown was given as the reward of victory in thePythian games, for no other reason than because, accord≠ing to report, Daphne the daughter os Ladon was belovedby Apollo.



CHAP. VIII.



It is said that the first Grecian Sunedrion, or place ofassociation, was raised here by Amphictyon the son ofDeucalion, and that from him, those who assembled herewere called Amphictyons. But Androtion in his Attichistory fays, that all the inhabitants bordering on theDelphi came from the first to Delphos, and formed therean assembly; and that the members of this conventionwere called in 'process of time Amphictyons. They faytoo that the following Grecian people were collected intothis assembly by Amphictyon, viz. the Ionians, Dolopians,



Theslalians,



 THE DESCRIPTION



Theflalians, √Ünianians, Magnet√¶, Maleenses, Phthiotsc,Dorienses, Phocenses, and the Locrians that border onPhocis, and dwell under the mountain Cnemis. But whenthe Phocenses plundered the temple, and in the tenthyear when the war was finished, the Sunedrion of theAmphictyons was changed: for the Macedonians wereadmitted into this assembly; and the nation of the Pho≠censes, and the Doric Laced√¶monians ceased to becomemembers of it: the former on account of their sacrilegiousconduct  and the latter because they assisted the Pho≠censes in war, and were for this obliged to pay a fine.But when Brennus led an army of Gauls to Delphos, thePhocenses fought against them with an alacrity superiorto that os the other Greeks, and in consequence of thisagain partook of the assembly of the Amphictyons, andrecovered all their ancient dignity. Afterwards the Em≠peror Augustus was willing that the Nicopolitans atActium should likewise partake of this assembly. Hetherefore ordered the Magnet√¶, Maleenses, √Ünian√¶, andPhthiotx, to join themselves to the Thessalians; andtransferred the suffrages of these people and the Dolopiansto the Nicopolitans. The Amphictyons in my time werethirty in number. Nicopolis, Macedonia, and the Thes≠salians, had each of them two. Among the B≈ìotians(for these formerly were a part of Thessaly, and werecalled the √Üolenses) there were two. So likewise thePhocenses and the Delphi had each of them two; and theancient Doric land had one. The Locri too, who are calledCbiolie, ard those who are beyond Eubcca, send each ofthem one: and the Eubccenses and the Athenians eachfend one. The cities, indeed, Delphos and Nicopolis fendmembers to the assembly of the Amphictyons, and are pre≠sent



OF GREECE. , 



sent at every asiembly: but each of the other nations we haveenumerated, only joins this convention at stated periods.



On coming into the city, you will fee temples in a con-rtinued series. The first of these is in a ruinous condition;the second is without statues; the third has images of theRoman emperors, but these are not numerous  and thefourth is called the temple of Minerva Pronoia. But ofthe statues which are in the vestibule of this temple, thereis an offering of the Maflilienfes, which is larger than thestatue within the temple. These Maflilienfes are a co≠lony of the Phocaenses, and a part of those Ionians, who,in order to avoid Harpagus the Mede, fled from Phoccea.Having, however, vanquiflied the Carthaginians in a navalbattle, they took possession of that country which theynow inhabit, and arrived at a high degree of prosperity.The offering too of the Maflilienfes is brazen. But theDelphi fay, that the golden shield which was dedicatedby Cr≈ìsus the Lydian king to Minerva Pronoia, wastaken away by Philomelus. Near this temple of Minervathere is an heroic grove of Phylacus. According to theDelphi, this Phylacus assisted them when they were at≠tacked by the Persians. But in that part of the gymna≠sium which is in the open air, they fay a wild boar wasonce born; that Ulysses, when he was going to Auto-lycus, hunted this boar together with the sons of Auto-lycus; and that he was wounded by it on the knee. Onturning to the left hand from the gymnasium, and de≠scending not more (as it appears to me) than three stadia,you will fee the river Plisius. This river runs intoCirrha, a haven of the Delphi, and the sea which is inthat part. But on ascending from the gymnasium to thefemple, you will see on the right hand of the road, the



water



 THE DESCRIPTION



water os Castalia, which is sweet to the taste. They saythat a woman, a native of this place, gave a name to thefountain; but some are of opinion, that it was denomi≠nated by a man whose name was Castalius. Panyashs,however, the son of Polyarchus, fays, in the verses whichhe composed on Hercules, that Castalia was the daughterof Achelous. For thus he speaks concerning Hercules:



"With rapid sect, Parnassus' snow v topHe left behind, and to Castalia-!. streamImmortal AchcIouV daughter came.''



I have likewise heard it asserted, that this water of Cas≠talia is the gift of the river Cephissus. AIcxus indeedfays this, in the introduction of his hymn to Apollo: andthis is confirmed by the Lil√¶enses, who report, thatwhen, on stated days, they throw into the fountain ofCephissus cattle belonging to their country, and otherthings according to established rites, they are again seenin the river Castalia. The city of the Delphi in everypart rises to a steep: and the sacred inclosure of Apollohas the fame situation with the city. This temple is verylarge, and stands in the upper part of the city: and pas≠sages in a continued series cut one another through thetemple.



CHAP. IX.



I SHALL now give an account of those sacred offer≠ings which appear to me to merit description in the mosteminent degree. For I shall not make any mention ofthose athlet√¶ and contending musicians who are of nogreat estimation: and as to those athlet√¶ that have left be≠



hind



; OF GREECE. 



hind them a great reputation, the reader will find an ac≠count of them in my Eliacs. Phayllus, however, the Cro-tonian, is not among the number of these, because he wasnot victorious in the Olympic games: but he was twicevictorious in the quinquertium, and once in the stadiumof the Pythian games. The fame person, too, foughtagainst the Persians in a naval battle, furnishing for thispurpose a ship of his own, and manning it with such ofthe Crotonians as were then travelling about Greece,There is a statue of him among the Delphi: and such arethe particulars respecting this Crotonian. On enteringinto the grove, you will fee a brazen bull, which wasmade by Theopropus √Üginetes, and was the gift of theCorcyrxans. It is said that a bull once in Corcyra, havingleft the oxen his companions, and the pastures in whichhe fed, came near the sea and lowed; that in consequenceof his doing the fame every day, the herdsman went tothe sea-side, and beheld an almost infinite number oftunny fishes; and that when he had informed the Corey*rseans of this circumstance, they, on endeavouring tocatch these fishes, but without success, sent speculators(Theoroi) to Delphos. In compliance therefore with themai>.late of the oracle, they sacrificed a bull to Neptune,and immediately after the sacrifice caught the fishes.Hence they sent both to Olympia and Delphos a tenthpart of the value of what they caught, as a sacred of≠fering. After this, the gifts of the Tegcatx from thespoils of the Laced√¶monians follow, viz. Apollo andVictory, heroes natives of their country; Callisto thedaughter of Lycson; Areas, from whom a country wasdenominated : the sons of Areas, viz. Aphidas and Azan jand together with these Triphylus, whose mother was



 THE DESCRIPTION



not Erato, but Laodamea the daughter of Amyclas, king



of the Laced√¶monians.



They also dedicated Erafus the son of Triphylus. Butwith respect to the artificers of these statues, Apollo andCallisto were made by Pausanias the Apollonian; Victory,and the image of Areas, by D√¶dalus the Sicyonian;Triphylus and Azah, by Areas Samolas; and Elatus,Aphidas, and Erafus, by the Argive Antiphanes. Thesestatues the Tegeat√¶ sent to Dtelphos, in consequence ashaving made the Laced√¶monians captives, who madehostile incursions on their borders. Opposite to these arcthe offerings which the Laced√¶monians dedicated whenthey vanquished the Athenians, viz. the Dioscuri, Jupiter,Apollo, Diana; and together with these, Neptune andLysander the son of Aristocretus, receiving a crown fromNeptune. There are besides, Abas, who prophesied toLysander, and-Hermon, who was the pilot of Lysander'pr√¶torian sliip. Thcocofmus the Mtgarensian made thisstatue of Hermon, when he was ranked among the citi≠zens of the Megarenses. But the Dioscuri were made bythe Argive Antiphanes. The prophet Abas was made byPauson from Calaurea belonging to the Troezenians.Damias made Diana, Neptune, and Lysander; and Athe-nodorus Apollo and Jupiter. Both these artists were Ar≠cadians from Clitov. Behind the statues which we havejust mentioned, the statues of those men are placed whoalsisted Lysander in the battle at √Ügospotamos, and whowere either Spartans, or the allies of the Spartans. Andthese ave as follow: Aracus and Erianches, the former aLaced√¶monian, and the latter a B≈ìotian from Mimas.After these Astycrares, Cephisocles, Hermophantus, Hici-sius, Chians; ' imarchus and Diagoras, Rhodians; Theo-



damas



 



OF GREECE. 



dam us the Cnldian, Cimmerius the EpheGan, √Üantidesthe Milesian succeed. All these were made by Tisander.



These that follow were made by Alypus the Sicyonian,viz. Theopompus the Midean, Cleomedes the Samian;from Eub≈ìa, Aristocles the Carystian, Autonomus theEretrienfian, Aristophantus the Corinthian, Apollodorusthe Troezenian: and from Epidaurus in the borders of theArgives, Dion. Next to these are the Achaian Axio-nicus from Pellene, Theares from Hermione, Pyrias fromPhocis, Conon from Megara, Agimenes from Sicyon,Pythodotus the Corinthian, Telecrates the Leucadian,and Euantidas from Ambracia. Lad of all follow theLaced√¶monians, Epicyridas and Eteonicus. They faythat these were made by Patrocles and Canachus. Butthe Athenians affirm, that the loss which they suffered at√Ügospotamos happened to them unjustly, in consequenceof the commanders of their army being bribed. For theyfay that Tydeus and Adimantus received presents fromLyfander: and in proof of this they adduce the followingSibylline oracle: " And then shall high-thundering Ju≠piter, who possesses the greatest strength, severely afflictthe Athenians: for he will bring war and destruction ontheir ships, which will perish through the fraudulent con≠duct of their commanders.'' They likewise produce the fol≠lowing testimony from the oracles of Mus√¶us: " A mightystorm shall burst on the Athenians, through the basenessof their leaders; but they will be consoled for (heir mis≠fortune, by subverting the city of their enemies, andavenging the loss which they sustained." And thus muchconcerning tlii- affair. But the lame Sibyl predicted, thatthe event of the engagement which tock place betweenthe Laced√¶monians anj Argives above Thyrea, would be



doubtful.



 THE DESCRIPTION



doubtful. The Argives, however, being of opinion thatthey should vanquish their enemies, sent a brazen horseto the statue os Durius at Delphos: and this horse wasrnade by the Argive Antiphanes.



CHAP. X.



On the basis under this horse there is an inscription,which signifies that statues were dedicated here from the‚ñ† tenth of the spoils of the battle at Marathon. These sta≠tues are Minerva and Apollo; and of the commanders,Miltiades. But of those that are called heroes, Ercchtheus,Cecrops, and Pandion: Celeus likewise, and Antiochusthe son of Hercules, by Midea the daughter of Phylas, ro-. gether with √Ügeus ‚Ä¢, and of the sons of Theseus, Acamas.These, in consequence of a Delphic oracle/ gave namesto the Athenian tribes. Here too there arc statues ofCodrus the son of Melanthus, Theseus and Phyleus, whowere not ranked among the surnames. All these statueswere made by Phidias, and are in reality the tenths of theMarathouian battle. Afterwards they sent Antigonusand his son Demetrius, and the Egyptian Ptolemy, toDelphos; the latter on account of their .benevolencetowards him; and the two former, through fear. Othergifts of the Argives may be seen not far from thishorse, viz. those lenders who together with Polyniceswarred on Thebes; Adrastus the son of Talaus, and Ty-deus the son of Oencus: the grandsons likewise of Proe-tus, together with Capancus the son of Hipponous, andEteocles the son of Iphis: and besides these, Polynices,and Ilippomcdcn who was the son of the sister of Adras≠tus.



OF GREECE. 



tus. Amphiaraus too is dedicated here, with his chariot,which is placed near him. Baton stands in this chariot,who was the charioteer of Amphiaraus, and at the fametime allied to him by his birth. The last of these isAlitherfes. The artificers of all these were Hypatodorusand Aristogiton: and they fay that the Argives dedicatedthem out of the spoils of the victory, which, through theassistance of the Athenians, they gained over the Laced√¶≠monians in Oenoe, an Argive city. It appears to me too,that the Argives dedicated out of the fame spoils theimages of those who are called by the Greeks Epigonoi,or posterior sons. For statues of these are placed here, viz.Sthenelus,and Alcm√¶on, who in my opinion was honouredabove Amphilocus, on account of his age. To these areadded, Promachus, Thersander, √Ügialeus, and Diomed.Euryalus too stands between Diomed and √Ügialeus.



Opposite to these there are other statues, which werededicated by the Argives, when they assisted Epami-nondas the Theban general in restoring the Messenians.There are likewise images here of heroes, viz. king Da-naus, who arrived at the highest degree of power andwealth in Argos: Hypermnestra, because she was the only‚ñ†one of his daughters that had pure hands: and near herLynccus, and all those who derive their origin from Her≠cules, and still higher from Perseus. There are besidesbrazen horses of the Tarentines, and captive women,which the Tarentines sent in consequence of having con≠quered the Mcssapians, who are a barbarous nation bor≠dering on the Tarentines: and these are the works ofthe Argive Ageladas. The Laced√¶monians indeed colo≠nized Tarentum under the command of the SpartanPhalanthus, whoj when he was feat on this errand, was



Vol. III. K told



io THE DESCRIPTION



told by a Delphic oracle, that when he should see rainfalling from a serene sky, he would then possess a landand city. But as he was not able by himself to discoverthe meaning os the oracle, and did not consult any inter-rpreter, he sailed with a fleet to Italy. Here having conrquered the Barbarians, but neither obtaining any land orcity, he recollected the oracle, and was of opinion thatthe *god had predicted that which could not be accom≠plished ; as it appeared to Iv m impossible that there mouldbe rain when the sky was clear and serene. His wife,however, when he was in a desponding condition (forhe had returned home), endeavoured to console him byher endearing officiousness; and as she was once support≠ing his head on her knees, and freeing it from vermin,through a benevolent concern for the adverse situation ofhis affairs she began to weep ‚Ä¢, and her tears, as she weptabundantly, fell on the head of her husband, who thenperceived the meaning of the oracle: for his wife's namewas √Üthra, which is the Greek word for a strent Jiy.On the following night therefore he took Tarentum, agreat and most flourishing maritime city of the Barbarians.They fay, indeed, that the hero Taras was the son ofNeptune, by a nymph, a native of Tarentum; and thatfrom the hero both a city and river are denominatedTaras,



C H A P. XI.



Near the sacred offering of the Tarentines, there isa treasury of the Sicyonians: but there are neither anyriches in this, nor in any other treasury, The Gnidii



likewise



OF GREECE. 



likewise brought statues to Delphos, viz. Triopas, whobuilt Gnidus, standing by a horse; Latona, Apollo, andDiana, piercing Tityus with their arrows, whose body isrepresented wounded. These stood near the treasury ofthe Sicyonians. The Siphnii too made a treasury on thefollowing account. The island Siphnos had gold-mines ,and they were ordered by Apollo to fend a tenth of theproduce of these mines to Delphos; in consequence ofwhich they built a treasury, and sent with it a tenth ofthe produce of their mines. Afterwards, however, throughtheir immoderate desire of accumulating wealth, they ne≠glected to send the tenth of their riches to Delphos; andin consequence of this their gold mines were destroyedby an inundation of the sea. The Lipar√¶i likewise havededicated statues here for a naval victory, which theygained over the Tyrrheni. These Lipar√¶i were a colonyof Gnidians, who, as we are informed by the SyracufahAntiochus the son of Xenophancs, in his Sicilian history,were colonized by a Gnidian, whose name was Pentathlus.This historian adds, that the Gnidians being driven fromthat city which they had built at Pachynum, a promon≠tory of Sicily, by the Elynii and Ph≈ìnicians, either tookpossession of desert islands, or drove the inhabitants outof the islands on which they landed: and these, in con≠formity to the verses of Homer, they call at present theislands of √Üolus. In Lipara, one of these islands, theybuilt a city: but they sailed to Hiera, Strongyle, andJDidym√¶, for the purpose of cultivating the land in thesoplaces.



It is evident th?t in Stronpyle sire rises out of theground: and in Hiera fire spontaneously ascends fromthe promontory on the island. Near the sea here there



K  ar¬´



i THE DESCRIPTION



arc baths of salubrious water, and of a more temperatenature: for the water in other parts is not adapted forbathing, through its great heat. But to return to thegifts in the temple, the Thebans and Athenians havededicated here treasuries, in consequence os success inwar. I do nos however know, whether the Gnidiansbuilt their treasury in consequence of any victory, or forthe purpose of shewing the prosperous condition of thei*affairs. For the Thebans dedicated treasuries on accountof the victory which they gained at Leuctra, and theAthenians for their success at Marathon. But the Cleon√¶ibeing afflicted with a pestilence in the fame manner asthe Athenians, by the admonition of the Delphic oracle,immolated a goat to the rising fun, and, when they wereby this means freed from their malady, sent a brazengoat to Apollo. After these follow the gifts of the Poti-d√¶at√¶ in Thrace, and of the Syracusans. These last senta treasury to the temple, on account of the great victorywhich they obtained over the Athenians: but the Poti-dicat√¶ sent a treasury as a testimony of their piety to thegod. The Athenians too have dedicated a porch, fromthe spoils which they took from the Peloponnesians andtheir Grecian allies- In this place likewise the orna≠ments belonging to the extremities of ships are dedicated,and together with them brazen shields. The inscriptionon these mentions the cities from which the Athenianssent the first fruits of their spoils, viz. Elis, Laced√¶mon,Sicyon, Megara, the Pellenenses, the Achaians, Ambracia,Leucas, and Corinth They sacrifice to Theseus for thesenaval victories, and to Neptune whom they call Qrios. Thisinscription, too, as it appears to me, celebrates Phormiqthe son of Asopichus, and his illustrious achievements.



C H A P,



OP GREECE, 



CHAP. XII.



A. STONE elevates itself above this place, on whichthe Sibyl Herophile (as the Delphi fay) used to sing heroracles. I have found that this Sibyl was thus denomi≠nated from the first in the fame manner as any otherancient Sibyl. The Greeks fay that she was the daughterof Jupiter and Lamia; that Lamia was the daughter ofNeptune; and that (he was the first woman that fangoracles, and was denominated by the Africans Sibylla.This Sibyl Herophile, indeed, was certainly posteriorto Lamia j but at the fame time it appears, that sheflourished prior to the Trojan war. For she predicted,that Helen would be educated in Sparta, that she wouldbe the destruction of Asia and Europe, and that Troythrough her means would be taken by the Greeks. TheDelians make mention of her hymns to Apollo: and inher verses she not only calls herself Herophile, but like≠wise Diana. She likewise asserts of herself, that she is thewife of Apollo; and besides this, that she is his sister anddaughter. But these assertions are the result of her beingagitated with fury, and, possessed by the god. In anotherpart too of her oracles, she fays, that she was born from animmortal mother, viz. one of the nymphs of mount Ida,and a mortal father: for thus (lie speaks concerningherself:



"From an immortal nymph, and whale-fed sire,A mean between the two, I sprung to light,From one of Ida's nymphs Ijegot; my native landIs red Marpcssus where Aidoneus stows,A country (acred to the mighty Op¬´."



K  Even



 



 THE DESCRIPTION



Even at present there are ruins, in the Trojan mount Ida,of the city Marpessus ; and it contains about sixty inhabit≠ants. All the country about Marpessus is red, and verysultry. Hence it appears to me, that the reason why theriver Aidoneus, at one time hides itself in the earth,again emerges, and at last entirely disappears underground, is to be ascribed to the attenuated and cavernousnature of mount Ida. Marpessus is distant from theTrojan city Alexandrca about two hundred and fortystadia. The inhabitants of Alexandrea fay, that Herophilewas the guardian of the temple of Apollo, and that flicprophesied, in consequence of a dream of Hecuba, suchthings as I am very certain afterwards happened. ThisSibyl dwelt the greatest part of her life in Samos: shelikewise came to Delos and Delphos, in which last placeshe delivered her oracles on the stone which we havealready mentioned.



She died in Troy: her sepulchre is in the grove ofSminthcus: and on it there is a pillar with the followinginscription:



I who am buried in this stone sepulchreAm a Sibyl, a clear interpreter of the willOf Phoebus:



I was once a vocal virgin, but am now for ever dumb:And lie thus fettered, through the oppressive powerOf Fate.



I am however placed under the Nymphs and Mercury;And k is from Apollo that I receive thisDestiny, as the reward of iny ancientSacerdotal office.



Near her sepulchre there is a stone.Mercury of a quadran≠gular figure; and on the left hand there is water runninginto a receptacle, and near it there are statues of Nymphs.



 The



OF GREECE. i$



The ErithrSfei (for these people contend about Herophilethe most eagerly of all the Greeks) shew a mountain called'Corycus, and in it a cavern, in which they- fay Herophilewas born. They farther add, that her parents were a shep≠herd, Theodorus, a native of their country, and a nymphwho was' called Ida: and that the nymph was thus deno≠minated, for no other reason than because men at thattime called places thick-planted with trees, Mai. But theErythr√¶i do not rank among the oracles of Herophile, theverse respecting Marpeflus, and the river Aidoneus. OneHyperochus a Cum√¶an writes, that after Herophile awoman of Cuma belonging to the Opici, used to deliveroracles in the fame manner as Herophile, and that thiswoman was called Demo. >



The Cum√¶ans, however, cannot produce any oraclesof Demo; but they shew a stone water-pot in the templeof Apollo, in which they say the bones of this Sibyl aredeposited. After Demo, the Hebrews beyond Palsestinerank among the number of prophetic women, Sabbe,whose father they say was Berofus, and whose motherwas Erymanthe. Some, however, call this Sibyl a Baby≠lonian, and others an √Ügyptian. But Phaennis, who wasthe daughter of a man that reigned over the Chaones,and the Pele√¶ among the Dodon√¶ans, prophesied indeedfrom a divine power, but were not denominated Sibyls.As to the age and oracles of Phaennis, the former maybe known by inquiry, and there is no difficulty in obtain≠ing the latter: for she lived in those times in which An-tiochus, having taken Demetrius prisoner, seized on hiskingdom. But they fay that the Peleades were prior to Phe-monoe, and were the first women that fang these verses:



"Jove was, Jove is, and tvill be, mighty Jove!Earth gives us fruits, hepee call on mother Earth."



K  They



 THE DESCRIPTION



They say, too, that the following prophetic men, Euclu*the Cyprian, Mus√¶us the Athenian and the son of An-tiophemus, Lycus the son of Pandion, and Bacis from.B≈ìotia, were inspired by nymphs. I have read all theoracles of these, except those of Lycus. And thus muchconcerning men and women, as far as to the present time,,who are said to have prophesied from divine inspiration^



C H A P. XIII.



BlJT the brazen head of the P√¶onian bull called Bifsn>or buff, was sent to Delphos by Dropion the son of Deon,and king of the Pceonians. These busts are taken alive‚Ä¢with more difficulty than'any othw wild beasts : for thereare not any nets strong enough to hold them. They aretherefore hunted in the following manner: The hunterschoose a steep place, which terminates in a hollow. Thisplace they first fortify with a strong inclosure: then theycover the steep and the plain near the steep with thehides of oxen recently slain; but if they have not a suf-ficienpy of theft, they lubricate old hides with oil. Afterthis, very skilful horsemen drive the busts into this in≠closure, who falling through the slipperiness of the hidesare hurled headlong to the bottom of the plain. Here theyleave them for four or five days, till they are debilitated byweariness and hunger, and are considerably tamed. Thertthose who are (killed in the art of taming these animalsplace before them while they are lying in this weak con≠dition, the fruit of a pine nut, having first of all stripped-it of the inward skin r for at that time the buffs do not



desire



 



OF GREECE.' 



desire any other food. And last of all they bind them,and bring them away from the hollow. Opposite to thebrazen head of the Bison there is a statue which is in≠vested with a coat of mail, and a robe over it. The Delphifay that this was dedicated by the Andrii, and that it isthe statue of Andreus by whom they were colonized.Here too there arc statues of Minerva and Diana, whichwere dedicated by the Phocenses, for having conqueredthe Thessalians their perpetual enemies, and those whoborder on their dominions, except in that part in whichthey are separated from Phocis, by the intervention of theLocrian Hypocnemidii. The Thessalians likewise st Phar-salus, and the Macedonians who inhabit the city DiosundervPieria, and the Grecian Cyren≈ìans in Libya, havesent sacred offerings to this temple. For these last dedi≠cated a chariot, in which Anmon stands: but the Diat√¶dedicated an Apollo laying hold of a stag: and the Phar-salians an Achilles on horseback. The Corinthians too,who are ranked among the Dorienscs, built a treasury:and in this they deposited the gold which they received'from the Lydiani. But the statue of Hercules is the giftof the Thebans, in consequence os that war with thePhocenses which is called sacred.



Here likewise there are brazen images which the Pho≠censes dedicated, when in a second engagement they van≠quished the Theffalian horse. The Phliasians too sent abrazen Jupiter to Delphos, and together with Jupiter animage of √Ügina. The Mantineans from Arcadia dedicateda brazen Apollo, which is not far from the treasury ofthe Corinthians. Hercules and Apollo hold a tripod, andare on the point of fighting with each other for its pos≠se IB on;



iR THE DESCRIPTION



session: but Latona and Diana appease the anger ofApollo, and Minerva that of Hercules. This too was thegift of the Phocenses, which they dedicated at that timewhen the Elean Tellias led the ' hessalians against them.The other statues were made in common by Diyllus andAmyclxus ; but Minerva and Diana were made byChion.They fay that these artists were Corinthians. The Delphitoo report, that, when Hercules the son of Amphitryoncame to this oracle, the prophet ‚Ä¢Xenocleas was unwillingto give him an answer to his interrogation, because he waspolluted with the slaughter of Iphitus; but that Herculestook up the tripod, and carried it out of the temple j uponwhich the prophet said : " This is a Tirynthian Hercules,and not Canobeus." For prior to this an Egyptian Her≠cules came to Delphos But then the son of Amphitryonrestored the tripod to Apollo, and was instructed by Xeno≠cleas in whatever he was desirous of learning. And it isfrom this circumstance that poets have taken occasion tosing of the -contest between Hercules and Apollo for atripod. A golden tripod supported by a dragon of brasswas the gift of the Greeks in common, for the victorygained at Plattea. And even at present the brazen partof this offering remains entire ; but -the golden part wastaken away by the Phocensian commanders. The Taren-tines also sent to Delghos another tenth of the spoils takenfrom a barbarous people called the Pcucetii. And theseofferings were made by Onatas √Üginetes and Calynthus.They consist of images of men on foot and on horseback.Opis king of the lapyges is represented giving assistanceto the Pcucetii, and resembles a person dying in the en≠gagement. Those that stand near him are, the hero Taras,



aud



OF GREECE, 



mrtd the Laced√¶monian Phalanthus: and not far fromPhalanthus there is a dolphin. For before he came intoItaly, he was shipwrecked in the Criss√¶an se was,they fay, brought on shore by a dolphin



CHAP. XIV.



BuT the battle-axes which are dedicated here were thegift of Periclytus the son of Euthymachus the Tcnedian.An ancient story assigns the reason of their being dedi≠cated. This story informs us, that Cycnus was the sonof Neptune, and that he reigned in Colon√¶, a Trojantown which is situated near the island Leucophrys. ThisCycnus had a daughter whose name was Hemithea, anda son named Tennes, by Proclea the daughter of Clytius,and the sister of Caletor, who, as we are informed byHomer in the Iliad, was slain by Ajax, because he broughtfire to the soip of Protesilaus. On the death of Proclea,Cycnus married Philonome the daughter of Craugasus,who falling in love with her son-in-law Tennes, and beingrepulsed by him, falsely accused him to her husband of en≠deavouring to have connection with her against her wilLCycnus becoming the dupe of her deception, shut upTennes and his sister in a chest, and threw them into thesea. They were, however, carried with safety to the islandLeucophrys, which is now denominated Tenedos fromTennes. But Cycnus, having in process of time discoveredthe fraudulent conduct of his wife, failed in search of hisson, in order that he might justify himself by pleading inhis defence that he was ignorant of his wife's artifice, and



beg



 THE DESCRIPTION



beg pardon for the deed. When therefore he drove to the*island Leucophrys, and had fastened his vessel either to astone or a trunk of a tree, Tennes, impelled by anger, flewhim with a battle-ax. And hence it came to be a proverbialsaying, when any one resolutely denied complying withthe request os another, that he cut him down with a Te-nedian battle-ax. The Greeks fay that Tennes was flaistby Achilles, as he was making depredations on this island.But the Tenedii in process of time joined themselves tothe Trojan Alexandreans, through the imbecility of theiraffairs.



The Greeks too, who warred against the Persians, de≠dicated in Olympia a brazen Jupiter, and in Delphos anApollo, for the naval victory which they obtained at Ar-temisium and Salamis. It is also said, that Themistocles,when he came to Delphos, dedicated to Apollo the spoiltof the Medes; and that, on his inquiring whether hemight place these gifts within the temple, the Pythianpriestess ordered him to carry them entirely away fromthe temple. But the oracle which flie gave him respect≠ing this was as follows: ‚Ä¢* Place not in my temple thebeautiful spoils of the Persians, but swiftly carry them toyour own habitation." It is certainly a wonderful cir≠cumstance, that the god should alone reject the spoils ofthe Medes which were presented by Themistocles. Seme,however, are of opinion, that all the Persian spoils wouldhave been rejected, if, like Themistocles, they had first in≠terrogated Apollo whether he would accept them. Othersagain fay, that^ as Apollo foreknew Themistocles wouldbecome a suppliant to the Persians, he was unwilling toreceive their spoils, lest the Persians through hatred of thedonor sliould reject his supplications. You may find this



irruption



 



OF GREECE. 



irruption of the Barbarians into Greece predicted in theoracles of Bacis: and, still prior to these, verses respectingthis affair were published by Euclus. There is a brazenwolf too near the greatest altar in this temple, which wasdedicated by the Delphi themselves. They fay, that a cer*tain man having stolen some of the riches of the god, hidhimself, with the sacred treasure, in that part of Parnassusin which there was the greatest quantity of wild trees jthat a wolf attacked and slew this man as he was asleep,and afterwards used to run into the city howling everyday. That the inhabitants, considering this circumstancecould not happen without the interference of a divinepower, followed the wolf, found the sacred gold, and de≠dicated a brazen wolf in consequence of this to the god.The golden statue of Phryne here was made by Praxiteles,who was one of her lovers ; but the statue was dedicatedby Phryne.



CHAP. XV.



ThE offerings which follow this are two statues ofApollo; one of which was dedicated by the Epidaurians¬ªn the borders of the Argives, from the spoils of theMedes; and the other was dedicated by the Megarenses,in consequence of having conquered the Athenians atNissxa. But the ox which was dedicated here by thePlat√¶enses, is an offering for having, in conjunction withthe other Greeks, revenged themselves in their own do≠minions on Mardonius the son of Gobrias. After thisfhere are again two statues of Apollo, one of which was



dedicated



i THE DESCRIPTION



dedicated by the Heracleotx near the Euxine sea, and theother by the Amphictyons from a sine which they leviedon the Phocenses for cultivating the land sacTed to thegod. This Apollo is called by the Delphi Sitalcas, and isthirty-five cubits in magnitude. Here too there are manystatues of commanders. There are besides statues of Dianaand Minerva, and two of Apollo, which were dedicatedby the √Ütolians when they vanquished the Gauls. Pha-ennis, indeed, in her oracles, predicted that the army ofthe Celt√¶ would pass over from Europe into Asia, andprove the destruction of Asiatic cities, one age prior to theaccomplishment of her prediction: "Then, indeed, thepernicious army of the Celt√¶, having passed over the nar≠row sea of the Hellespont, shall play on the flute, and ina lawless manner depopulate Asia. ‚ñ† But divinity will stillmore severely afflict those that dwell near the sea. How≠ever, in a short time after Jupiter will send them a de≠fender, the beloved son of a Jove-nourished bull, who willbring destruction on all the Gauls."



Phaennis in this oracle means by the son of a bull, At≠tains king of Pergamus, whom the oracle of Apollo calledTtmroleroos, or bull-horned. The generals of the horse,who are themselves seated on horseback, were dedicatedby the Phcrxi, for having vanquished the Athenian horse.But the Athenians dedicated the brazen palm, with thegilt st.ituc of Minerva, in consequence of having gainedin one and the same day a victory by land near Eury-medon, and by sea in the same river. When I saw thatthe gold was plucked from this statue in many places, Ithrew the blame on the sacrilegious; but I found after≠wards in the account of the Attic affairs by Clitodemus,that, when the Athenians had prepared themselves for the



,, n



OF GREECE. 



Sicilian expedition, an immense number of crows cameat that time to Delphos, and tore away the gold of thestatue with their beaks. The fame historian acids, that thesecrows tore oft" the spear, the owls, and all that was carvedin the palm-tree in imitation of ripe fruit. Clitodemustoo relates other prodigies, which were sent in order todeter the Athenians from that expedition.  he Cyren√¶itoo dedicated in Delphos a statue of Battus in a chariot,because he brought them by sea from Thera to Libya.In this chariot the nymph Libyc crowns Battus: and thisoffering was made by the Gnoffian Amphion, the son ofAcestor. When Battus built Cyrene, he is said to haveobtained the following remedy for his defect of speech.As the Cyrena:ans were travelling through Africa, andwere yet in the deserts situated in its extremities, Battusbeheld a lion, and through the terror which the sight ofthe beast produced in him, he was compelled to cry outwith a clear and loud voice. Not far from the statue ofBattus there is another statue of Apollo, which was dedi-rcated by the Amphictyons out of the money which thePhpcenses were fined for their impiety to Apollo.



CHAP. XVI.



Of all the offerings, however, which the Lydian kingssent to Apollo, nothing at present remains except the ironbasis cf the bowl of Halyattes. This was made by Glautu*¬£he Chian, who first discovered the art of soldering iron.Indeed, the junctures of this basis are not formed fromany chips or nails, but from solder alone. The form of



? THE DESCRIPTION



the basis for the most part resembles that of a tower, andrises from an acute bottom to a broad top. Each of its(ides is covered throughout, but is begirt with transverserones of iron, like the steps in a ladder. Straight andductile lamina of iron are bent in their extremities out≠wards : and this was the feat of the bowl. But that whichis called by the Delphi the navel, and which is made ofwhite stone, is, as they fay, the middle point of the wholeearth. And Pindar in one of his odes speaks in con≠formity to this opinion. Here too there is an offering ofthe Laced√¶monians, viz. Hermione the daughter of Me-nelaus, who was married to Orestes the son of Aga≠memnon, and prior to this to Neoptolemus the son ofAchilles. This was made by Calamis. The √Ütolians like≠wise dedicated in this temple a statue of Eurydamus, whowas their commander when they fought against the Gauls.In the mountains of Crete the city Elyros yet exists. Thi¬ªcity sent a brazen goat to Apollo, which is representedsuckling Phylacis and Phylander. The Elyrians fay, thatthese were the sons of Apollo and the nymph Acacallis;and that Apollo had connection with her in the cityTarrha, and in the house os Carmanor. But the Carystiifrom Eubcea sent a brazen ox to Apollo for havinggained a victory over the Persians.



Both theCarystii and Platxcnfes,indeed,dedicated oxen,as it appears to me, because, having expelled the Barba≠rians from Greece, they obtained in other respects a stabledegree of property, and were enabled to cultivate a freeland. The √Ütolians dedicated the images of their com≠manders, and together with these Apollo and Diana, inconsequence of having conquered their neighbours theAcarnanes. "What the Liparxans relate of themselves with



respect



OF GREECE. ;



respect to the Tyrrheni is most absurd. For they say,that the Pythian deity having ordered them to engage theTyrrheni with a very small fleet of ships, they on thecontrary drew out against them five three-oared galleys.That the Tyrrheni considering themselves as not inferiorin naval strength and skill to the Leparieans, attackedthem with an equal number of ships. But when theLipar√¶ans took the five galleys of the Tyrrheni, the Tyr≠rheni attacked them a second, third, and fourth time withthe like number of vessels. All these however were takenby the Lipar√¶ans, who in consequence of this victorysent as many statues of Apollo to Delphos, as the numberof the ships which they had captured amounted to. Eche-cratides, too, a Lariss√¶an, dedicated a small Apollo: andthe Delphi say, that this was dedicated the first of all theofferings.



CHAP. XVII.



*HE Barbarians that inhabit Sardinia towards the west,sent to this temple a brazen statue of him from whomthey were denominated. Sardinia, for its magnitude andprosperous condition, may be compared with the most ce≠lebrated islands. I do not know what this island was for≠merly called by the inhabitants; but those Grecians thatfail to it for commercial purposes, call it Ichnuffa, becauseits form resembles the impression of a man's foot. The lengthof this island is about fix hundred and twenty, and itsbreadth, four hundred and twenty stadia. The Libyansare said to have been the first that sailed to this island,Under the command of Sard us the son of Maceris, whoVol. III. L was



 THE DESCRIPTION



was Curnamed Hercules by the √Ügyptians and Libyans.Nothing more remarkable is related of the father of Sar-dus, Maceris, than that he once came to Delphos. Sardusbrought a colony of Libyans to Ichnussa; and hence theisland came lo be called after the name of Sardus. Thiscolony of Libyans did not exterminate the natives. Thenatives however associated with the new inhabitants morethrough necessity than regard. The Libyans too, at thattime, were as ignorant in the art of building cities, asthe native inhabitants of this island : and hence, they dweltin straggling cottages, and in caverns. Some years afterthe Libyans had settled here, those Grecians that followedArist√¶us came into this island. They fay that Arist√¶uswas the son os Apollo and the nymph Cyrene, and thathaving bitterly lamented the misfortune of Act√¶on, andbeing hated by Bceotia and all Greece, he migrated toSardinia. Some too are of opinion, that D√¶dalus fledat the fame time through fear of the Cretan arms, andthat he assisted Arist√¶us in bringing a colony into Sar≠dinia.' There is however no probability, that D√¶daluscould be the companion of Arist√¶us, either in establishinga colony, or in any other undertaking, as Arist√¶us wasmarried to Autonoe the daughter of Cadmus, and D√¶daluswas contemporary with Oedipus king of Thebes.



Arist√¶us, however, and the Grecians that followed him,did not build any city, because, as it appears to me, theywere neither numerous nor strong enough for this pur≠pose. After Arist√¶us the Ibcri passed over into Sardiniaunder the command of Norax, and built a city whichthey called Nora. They fay that this city was the firstthat was built in this island; and that Norax was the son‚Ä¢f Mercury by Erythca the daughter of Geryon. A fourth



band,



t



 



OF GREECE. 



band, composed of Thespians and inhabitants of the Atticlind, came to Sardinia under the command of Iolaus.These built the city Olbia, which is also called Ogrylle,either after the name of some one of the Attic towns,or because Gryllus partook of this expedition. Even atpresent therefore there are certain places in Sardiniawhich are called Iolaii; and Iolaus is honoured by theinhabitants. After the destruction of Troy, others of theTrojans saved themselves by flight, as well as the fol≠lowers of √Üneas. Of these one part was driven by tem≠pests to Sardinia, and became mingled with the Greeksthat resided there prior to this circumstance. But the Bar≠barians were prevented from warring on the Greeks andTrojans, because there was an equality on both sides in allwarlike preparations, and the river Thorsus, which flowsthrough the middle of the island, was a barrier to thejunction of the two parties. Many years after this,the Libyans came with a greater fleet to Sardinia, andattacking the Greeks that dwelt there, either flew themall, or at least left but a very few alive. But the Trojanson this occasion fled to the elevated parts of the island,and entrenching themselves iii mountains difficult of ac≠cess through their ruggedness, and the hanging rocks withwhich they were surrounded, are even at present calledIlicnses. They are however in their form, the apparatusof their arms, and their manner of living, like the Afri≠cans. Not far from Sardinia there is an island calledby the Greeks Cyrnos, but by the Libyans that inhabit itCorsica. No small part of the inhabitants of this island beingincited to sedition, passed over to Sardinia, and havingseized on the mountains, fixed their residence in them.These by the inhabitants of Sardinia are denominated from



L  their



 



$ THE DESCRIPTION



their sounder, Corfi. But the Carthaginians, as they were"very powerful by sea, drove out all the inhabitants fromSardinia, except the Ilienscs and Corfi: for steep and for≠tified mountains prevented them from subduing these.



The Carthaginians built in this island two cities*Carnalis and Sylli: but a dispute arising concerningthe spoil, the Libyans and Spaniards revolted from theCarthaginians, and settled themselves in the elevatedparts of the island. The Corn call these people in theirnative tongue, Balaroi i for thus they denominate exiles.And such are the nations which inhabit Sardinia, andsuch the cities into which it is divided. But those partsof the island which are situated towards the north, andthe coast of Italy, are nothing but mountains difficult ofaccess, and whose summits are conjoined with each other.These parts, however, afford a very good harbour forships; and strong and irregular winds rush from the top¬ªof the neighbouring mountains into the sea. In the middleof the island too there are less elevated mountains; butthe air in this part is very turbid and noxious. The reasonof this is the fait which becomes concreted here, and theheavy and violent south-wind which blows from thesemountains. The northern winds, too, through the lofti≠ness of the mountain* towards the Italian coast, are pre≠vented from refrigerating the ground and the air in sum≠mer. Others are of opinion, that the island Corsica, whichis separated from Sardinia by not more than eight stadiaof sea, and which is on all sides mountainous and elevated,prevents the west and north winds from reaching as faras Sardinia. But neither serpents destructive to mankind,nor such as are harmless, nor wolves are produced inthis island. Aud as to the goats which it contains, they



are



OF GREECE. 



arc not larger than those in other places, and they re≠semble in their form the ram, which may be seen in theplastic productions of √Ügin√¶as. About the breast how≠ever they are more hairy: and the horns on their headare not separated from each other, but are from theirroots bent back towards their ears. In swiftness toosurpass all wild beasts. This fame island is likewise freefrom all kinds of poisonous and deadly herbs, exceptingone herb, which resembles parsley, and which, they lay,.causes those who eat it to die laughing. From this circum≠stance, Homer first, and others after him, call laughter,which conceals some noxious design, Sardonian. Thisherb is mostly produced about fountains; but yet it doesnot communicate it:; poisonous quality to the water. Andthus much concerning Sardinia, which we havs insertedinto our account os the Phocenfian affairs, because theGreeks have a very inconsiderable knowledge of thisisland.



CHAP. XVIII.



A HORSE stands next to the statue of Sardus, whichCallias the Athenian, and the son of Lysiinachides, fayshe dedicated out of the money which he acquired fromthe Persian war. The Achaians too dedicated a statue ofMinerva, when they took an √Ütolian city called Phana.As the siege of this city continued for no small length oftime, and it appeared at length impossible to take it,, theysent Speculators (theoroij to Delphos, who brought backthe following oracle : " Inhabitants of the land of Pelops,and the Achaians, you are come hither in order to inquire



L  by



iSo THE DESCRIPTION



/



by what means a city may be taken. Attend therefore tomy words : Observe, how much those that guard the wallsdrink every day; for by this means you shall take the tur-reted city Phana." As they were unable to comprehend themeaning of this oracle, they determined to give over thesiege, and return home. Those too within the walls madeno account of the enemy; and hence, a certain womanleft the walls in order to draw water from a neighbouringfountain. A band of soldiers however took her prisoner,and brought her to their camps. From her the Achaianslearnt, that the inhabitants of the town used to distributeevery night the water of that fountain to each other, andthat this was the only water they had to drink. In con≠sequence of this information the Achaians closed up thefountain with earth piled over it, and by this meanstook the city. The Rhodians too in Lindum dedicateda statue of Apollo, which stands near this statue ofMinerva. The Ambraciotx likewise dedicated a brazenass, in consequence of having vanquished the Molofli ina nocturnal engagement. For the Moloffi having laid anambush for the Ambraciotx in the night, an ass whohappened at that time to be driven from the fields to thetown attacked a female of his own species with a consi≠derable degree of wantonness. This occasioned him tobray very Ipud; and the driver of the ass at the fame timecalling to him with an indistinct and rough voice, pro≠duced such a dread in the Moloffi, that they immediatelyabandoned their enterprise. But the Ambraciot√¶ havingdetected their stratagem, attacked aad vanquished themin the night.



The Orneat√¶, too, who form a part of the Argives,when they were, vanquished by the Sicyonians in battk>,



made



OF GREECE. it



made a vow to Apollo, that if by repelling the enemythey were able to free their country from danger, theywould send every day a solemn procession to Delphos,and immolate a certain number of victims. However,after they had conquered the Sicyonians, and in conse≠quence of this sent every day a solemn procession to thegod according to their vow, they sound the expence tobe prodigious, and the fatigue attending it greater thanthe cost. Hence, they devised a subtle mode os accom≠plishing their vow, and this was by dedicating a brazensacrifice and procession to Apollo. Here too there is arepresentation of the achievement os Hercules respectingthe hydra, which was both dedicated and made by Tisa-goras. As well Hercules as the hydra is of iron. To makestatues indeed of iron, is a thing of the most difficultand laborious nature: but this work of Tifigoras, who≠ever he was, is really admirable. In Pergamus likewisethere arc iron heads of a lion and a boar dedicated toBacchus, which demand no small degree of admiration.ThcPhocians that inhabit Elatea, being freed from theliege of their city by Cassander (Olympiodorus, who wassent by the Athenians for this purpose, giving them assist≠ance), dedicated to the Delphic Apollo a brazen lion. Butthe statue of Apollo which stands very near this lion, wasmade out of the tenth of the spoils which the Massiliensestook from the Carthaginians, when they vanquished themin a naval engagement. The √Ütolians dedicated here atrophy, and a statue of an armed woman (viz. √Ütolia);and this out of the money which they took from theGauls, for their cruelty to the Callienses. The goldenjjnage in this temple was dedicated by Gorgias the Leon-tine, and is an image of Gorgias himself.



L chap.



 



ISZ THE DESCRIPTION



CHAP. XIX.



Near the statue os Gorgias is the Scionean ScyHis,who was renowned for heing able to descend into themost profound parts of every sea. He taught his daughterCyana this art of diving. Both of them, therefore, whenthe fleet of Xerxes was tolled about by a violent tempestnear mount Pelion, brought destruction on the three-oared galleys of the Persians, by cutting away the ropesthat held the anchors, or any thing else that fastened theships under water. Hence, in memorial of this achieve≠ment, the Amphictyons dedicated his statue, and that ofhis daughter. Among the statues which Nero took fromDelphos, was the statue of Cyana. Women, while theyare yet pure virgins, are said to descend with safety intothe sea. But here it is proper that I should relate whatis reported pf Lesbos. Certain Methymn√¶an fishermendrew up out of the sea in their nets a head made fromthe olive-tree. This head seemed to have something di≠vine in its form, but such as was foreign, and not agree≠able to the figure of the Grecian gods. The Methym-n√¶ans, therefore, inquired of the Pythian deity of whatgod or hero this head was the image, and received foranswer, that they should venerate Bacchus Cephallen.Hence the Methymn√¶ans kept the wooden head whichthey drew out of the sea, venerated it with sacrifices andprayers, and sent a brazen image instead of it to Delphos.In the roof of the temple there are Diana, Latona, Apollo,the Muses, the setting Sun, Bacchus, and the women who



 art;



 



OF GREECE. 



arc called Thyades. The faces of all these were made bythe Athenian Praxias the disciple of Calamis. For Praxiasdying before the temple was finished, the remaining partsof the ornaments of the roof were the work of Androf-thenes, who was an Athenian, and the disciple of Eu-cadmus. Golden arms are fixed on the tops of the co≠lumns. Of these the Athenians dedicated the shields) inconsequence os the victory which they gained at Mara≠thon. The spoilS'of the Gauls which are in the back partof the temple, and on the left hand, were dedicated bythe √Ütolians. The form of these shields very much re≠sembles that of the wicker-shields of the Persians, whichare called Gerrha.



In our account of the Attic Bouleuterion, we men≠tioned the irruption of the Gauls into Greece ; but I havethought proper in this description of the Delphic affairs,to relate the particulars of this irruption more explicitly,because the Greeks, in this engagement against the Bar≠barians, exerted themselves in a most eminent degree.The Gauls then marched out of their own dominions thefirst time, under the command of Cambaules; and pro≠ceeding as far as to Thrace, had not the boldness to ad≠vance beyond it, because they well knew that they werebut few in number, and on this account not able to con≠tend with the forces of the Greeks. But when theythought fit to lead a second army beyond their own boun≠daries, those that had before followed Cambaules, beingincited by a desire of gain and depredation, of whichthey had now tasted, collected together a great multitudeof foot soldiers, and of horse a considerable number.After this the commanders divided their army into threeparts j and each part was ordered to march into a dif≠ferent



i THE DESCRIPTION



ferent country. Cerethrius therefore was destined to in≠vade Thrace, and the nation of the Triballi. Brennus andAcichorus led those that marched into Pannonia: andSoigius was the commander of those that attacked theMacedonians and Illyrians. This Bolgius fought againstPtolemy king of the Macedonians, who flew by stratagemSeleucus the son of Antiochus, whose protection at thefame time he suppliantly implored, and who from his pro≠digious audacity was called Thunder. Ptolemy howeverfell in this engagement, and together with him no smallpart of the Macedonians. But as the Gauls at that timehad not the boldness to proceed any farther into Greece,they shortly aster returned into their own dominions.



Brennus after this earnestly solicited the general assem≠blies of the Gauls, and the principal persons of the Gallicnation, to war upon the Greeks, who, he said, were in≠ferior to them in courage, and at that time in an imbeeiicondition. He likewise reminded them of the great wealthwhich-the Greeks had arnaCed, of the numerous oiferingsin their temples, and of their gold and silver ornaments.By this means he persuaded the Gauls to attack theGreeks, and joined to himself both other principal per≠sons of that nation, and Acichorus. The Gallic army,in this third expedition, consisted of one hundred andfifty-two thousand foot and twenty thousand sour hun≠dred horse: and both horse and foot consisted of valiantsoldiers. However, the true number of these forces wassixty-one thousand two hundred. For two servants fol≠lowed each horseman, who were themselves good soldiers,and rode on horseback. These, when their masters werein the midst of an engagement, stood in the rear of thearmy, and if their masters happened to lose their horses



supplied



OF GREECE. 



supplied them with frefli ones. When any master too fell,one of these servants fought in his stead; and if he like≠wise fell, there was a third ready to succeed him. If themaster happened to be wounded, one of his servants im≠mediately led him out of the field of battle, and the otherfilled up the place of his wounded master. It appears tome, that the Gauls adopted this plan in imitation of thePersians, who always have in their armies a select band often thousand men whom they call the immortals. Thereis this difference however between the two, that thechosen band among the Persians attacks the enemy in theplace of those that have been slain, aster tlie engagement:but the Gauls order their select company to supply theplace of the dead or wounded during the engagement.This mode of fighting they call in their native tongue,Trimarcisias: for the name of a horse with the Gauls isMarcas. With such preparations, therefore, and with suchconceptions, Brennus marched into Greece.



CHAP: XX.



But the Greeks, though they were in a perfectly de≠sponding condition, yet were impelled by the strength offear to give the necessary assistance to their country. Forthey now clearly saw, that the present contest was notfor liberty, as it was formerly with the Persians; and thatif they should even give both land and water to the enemy,they could not hope for" security in future. They calledto mind too the calamities which they endured throughthe Barbarians, when they formerly made incursions onthe Macedonians, Thracians, and Pxonians; and had



learnt



j THE DESCRIPTION



learnt from report, how injuriously the Gauls had treatedthe Thessalians at that time. It was therefore the unani≠mous opinion both of individuals and cities, thar theymust either perish, or subdue the enemy. Any one whois so disposed, may easily enumerate those Grecian citieswhich opposed Xerxes at Thermopyl√¶, and those whichtook up arms against the Gauls. For the Greeks thatmarched against the Mede were these: The Laced√¶mo≠nians, who were not more than three hundred, under thecommand of Leonidas; five hundred of the Tegeat√¶, andas many from Manlinea. One hundred and twenty Or-chomenians were sent from Arcadia: a thousand from theether cities of Arcadia: eighty from Mycena: and twohundred from Phlius. The Corinthians sent twice thisnumber. There were seven hundred from Bceotia: andfrom Thespia andThcbes four hundred. Five hundred ofthe Phoccnses guarded the pafcges of mount Oeta. And!such was the number of the forces that assembled on thisoccasion, according to the genera! opinion cf the Greeks.For Herodotus does n&t mention the number of the Lo-crians who live under the mountain Cnemis; but onlyfays, that the Greeks assembled together from all theircities on this occasion. We may however conjecture thenumber os these very near the truth. For the Athenians inthe battle at Marathon opposed the enemy with not morethan nine thousand men, in which, those whose age ren≠dered them useless for the purposes of war, and servantswere ranked. It follows, therefore, that the band ofLocrians which came to Thermopyl√¶, could not at themost amount to more than six thousand men. And hence,the whole army must have amounted to eleven thousandtwo hundred men.



But



 



OF GREECE. iS



But it appears, that some of those who guarded theThermopyl√¶ left their station. For, indeed, none but theLaced√¶monians, Thespians, and Mycen√¶ans waited theevent of the war. Again, the following Grecian citiessent a guard to Thermopyl√¶ against the Barbarians, whomarched an army from the extremities of the ocean againstGreece. The B≈ìotians sent ten thousand heavy-armedsoldiers, and five hundred horse. These were under thecommand of four leaders called Bceotarchs, viz. Cephisso-dotus, Thearidas, Diogenes, and Lyfander. The Phocensessent five hundred horse and three thousand soot, and thesewere commanded by Critobulus and Antiochus. Midiasled seven hundred soot soldiers of the Locrians near theisland Atalanta: but these people had not any equestrianforces. Four hundred heavy-armed foot were sent by theMegarenses: and Megareus led the horse of these people.But the forces of the √Ütolians both surpassed the rest innumber, and in warlike skill. The number of their horseis not known; but that of their heavy-armed foot wasseven thousand, and of their light-armed ninety. Thesewere commanded by Polyarchus, Polyphron, and Lacratej.Calippus the son of Mocrocles led the forces of the Athe≠nians, as I have before (hewn. These forces consisted inthe first place of all the three-oared galleys which couldbe procured; in the next place of five hundred horse;and in the third place of a thousand foot. The Athenianstoo, on account of their ancient dignity, had the commandof all these forces.



Kings too sent mercenary troops: and of these firehundred came from Macedonia, and as many from Asia.Aristodemus the Macedonian was sent as a commanderof the auxiliary forces, by king Amigonus; and Telesar-



chus,



 



t; THE DESCRIPTION*



chus, who belonged to the Syrians near the river OronfesV .was sent as a commander by Antiochus from Asia. Theseforces being assembled at Thermopyl√¶, as soon as it wasknown that the army of the Gauls had fixed their campsin the borders of Magnesia and Phthiotis, they sent a thou-*sand light-armed soldiers, and a chosen body of horse to theriver Sperchius, that the Barbarians might not pass overthe river without fighting their way, and being exposedto the danger of a defeat. These forces, therefore, whenthey came to the Sperchius, destroyed the bridges whichthe Gauls had raised on it, and fixed their camps on thebanks of the river. Brennus, indeed, was not unskilled inwarlike affairs, but for a Barbarian sufficiently acute, andexperienced in the stratagems of war. On the followingnight, therefore, leaving that part of the river on whichhe had raised the bridges, he sent ten thousand soldiers,who were skilled in swimming, and remarkably tall (forthe Gauls in general surpass other men in stature) to thelower parts of the river, that the Greeks might not per≠ceive them as they were passing over-, and besides this,he knew that the river in this part spread itself widelyover the plains, and produced a marsh and lake insteadof a strong and narrow stream.. In the night, therefore,his forces swam over the marshy part of the river, someof them using their shields, which they call thureoi, forrafts, while others, who were taller than the rest, wadedthrough with their feet. The Greeks on the banks of theSperchius, as soon as they understood that the Barbarianshad passed over the marshy part of trie river, immediatelymarched back to their army.



i



CH AF.



 



OF GREECE.



CHAP. XXI.



BrENNUS after this ordered the inhabitants nearthe bay of Maliacus to join the Sperchius by a' bridge-This they accomplished with great celerity, both throughfear of Brcnnus, and through the desire os hastening thedeparture of the Barbarians, as there was reason to ex≠pect they would greatly injure them if they staid longin these parts. Brennus, therefore, as soon as he hadpassed over the river by bridges, led his army to Heraclea,depopulated the country, and flew the men that he found,in the fields. He did not however take the city, becausein the year prior to this event, the √Ütolians compelledthe Heracleot√¶ to become a part of their dominions, andin consequence of this defended their city at that timewith great alacrity, considering it as a place which be≠longed to themselves as much as to the Heracleotse. ButBrennus did not bestow, much pains in endeavouring totake this city, but employed himself principally in takingcare to prevent those who guarded the walls of Heraclea,from hindering his march to that part of Greece whichis -within Thermopyl√¶. Leaving therefore Heraclea, andlearning from certain fugitives the number of the forceswhich had assembled from the several cities of Greece,he despised the Grecian army, and determined to cometo an engagement on the following day at sun-rise;neither employing any Grecian prophet, nor performing any of ‚Ä¢the sacred ceremonies of his own country, if, indeed, theGauls knew any thing of. the divining art. The Greeks



drew



x THE DESCRIPTION



drew up in order of battle with silence and great regu≠larity. And when the two armies came to a close engage≠ment, the Grecian foot ran so far beyond their station,that they caused contusion in their own phalanx ; but thelight-armed troops remaining in their proper ranks, dis≠charged at the enemy their darts, arrows, and slings.



The horse in each army was perfectly useless, and thisnot only through the narrow passages of the mountain,which they call gates, but through the smoothness andf.ipperiness of the ground, from its rocky nature, andfrom frequent and abundant inundations of rivers. Thearmour of the Gauls too was inferior in strength to thatof the Greeks; for they had no other defence for theirbodies than those shields which they call ihureoi: and whatwas of still greater consequence, the Gauls were far in≠ferior in military experience to their enemies. However,in battle they rushed on the Greeks with a degree oflinger and fury resembling the attacks of wild beasts; sothat their rage, while life remained, suffered no abate≠ment, though they were maimed by the battle-ax, cutdown with the sword, or pierced with arrows and darts.Some of them, too, when wounded, sent back the dartswhich they tore from their wounds on the Greeks, orpierced with these darts the Greeks that stood near them.In the mean time the three-oared galleys of the Athenianscould scarcely, and not without danger, discharge theirrnissive weapons of every kind at the enemy, owing totheir sailing through mud, because the river was at a greatdistance from the sea, and being obliged to bring theirVessels very near the Barbarians. But the Gauls being‚ñ†wearied in a still greater degree than the Greeks, because -in those narrow passages they were unable to accomplish



any



 



OF GREECE. 



any thing of importance, and suffering every inconveni≠ence, were ordered by their commanders to retreat totheir camps. This they began to put in execution in avery disordered and tumultuous manner, many of themrushing against each other; and many falling into themarsh, and disappearing, absorbed by the mud; so thatthey suffered no less a loss in retreating, than in thevigour of the engagement.



On that day the valour of the Athenians transcendedthat of the other Greeks: and of the Athenians, Cydias,who was quite a youth, and who had never been in an"engagement before, gave specimens of superior courage.This youth being slain by the Gauls, his kindred dedi≠cated his shield to Jupiter the Liberator with this in≠scription:



"This shield to Jove now sacred, yet desires



The hlooming youth of Cydias fam'd:On his left arm this shield he bravely six'd,



When Mars impetuous tam'd the Gauls."



This inscription remained till the soldiers of Sylla tookthe flueld from the porch of Jupiter the Liberator, toge≠ther with other offerings of the Athenians. And suchwas the battle at the Thermopyl√¶. But on the next daythe Greeks buried their dead, and took away the armourof the Barbarians that fell in the engagement. The Gauls,however, did not demand any truce that they might burytheir dead } and plainly evinced, that they considered it asa matter of no consequence, whether the bodies of theflain were buried in the ground, or torn in. pieces by suchwild beasts and birds, as fight with each other for thebodies of the dead. It appears to me, that a twofoldreason may be assignedj why they are thus careless as toVol. III. M the



ii THE DESCRIPTION



the interment of the slain; a desire of terrifying theirenemies by this specimen of their ferocity; and their wantof commisexation for the dead. In this engagement fortyof the Greeks fell, but the number of the Barbarians thatwere slain cannot be accurately ascertained, because manyof them were swallowed up in the mud.



CHAP. XXII.



On the seventh day after the battle, a part of theGallic army endeavoured to ascend the mountain Oeta,in that part of it which is near Heraclea. But the pathhere was very narrow, beyond which were the ruins ofTrachis; and beyond Trachis there was a temple of Mi≠nerva, which contained sacred offerings. The Gauls how≠ever hoped they should be able to ascend Oeta throughthis narrow path, and at the fame time plunder the tem≠ple of Minerva. That guard, however, which was underthe command of Telefarchus vanquished the Barbarians,though Telesarchus himself sell in the engagement, a manremarkably zealous in the cause of Greece. But. whenthe other commanders of the Barbarians were terrified bythe valour of the Greeks, and began to despair of successin future, as they saw that all their present undertakingswere adverse, Brennus considered that, if he could butforce the √Ütolians to return home, he should easily .finishhis war on the Greeks. Having therefore chosen fortythousand soot and eight hundred horse out of his wholearmy, he gave the command of these forces to Orestoriusand Combutis, and ordered them first os all to pass into Theffaly



 



OF GREECE. '



Thessaly over the bridges of the Sperchitis, and after≠wards invade √Ütolia. These two commanders, Orejhriusand Combutis, ailed towards the Callienses in a manner themojl impious ive ever heard of, and at the fame time in norespect similar to the during wickedness of men. For theyflew all the males in the city, young as well as old, togetherwith infants at their mothers' Ireafls; and drank the bl edand ate thejlejh of such infants as the nutriment of milk hadrendered in a more thriving condition. On this occasion, suchwomen and virgins in the sower of their age, as were of asuperior courage, defrosed themselves; but the Barbarianstreated such as survived with the utmof} insolence and vio≠lence, as being a nation naturally incapable of pity, and averseto love.



Many indeed of these women voluntarily rushed onthe swords of the Gauls. Others again, not long after,died through hunger and wakefulnefs, in consequence ofthe insolence and violence of the Barbarians, who some≠times satisfied their lust on the bodies of the dying, andsometimes on the bodies of the dead, but the √Ütolianshaving learnt from certain messengers the calamities whichhad befallen their country, immediately with all possiblecelerity led back their forces from Thermopyl√¶ to √Ütolia;being enraged at the sufferings of the Callienses, and de≠siring to save those cities which had not yet experiencedthe fury of the barbarous enemy. All that were of anage capable of bearing arms came into the camps of the√Ütolians from all their cities; and with these old menwere mingled, who were impelled both by necessityand their pristine courage. The women, too, who weremore enraged against the Gauls than the men, voluntarilytook arms against them. But the Barbarian?, as soon as



M  they



: THE DESCRIPTION



they had plundered the houses- and temples, and had setthe city Callion on fire, returned the same way as theycame to their own people; and the Patrenses alone of allthe Achaians, that assisted the √Ütolians, opposed the Bar≠barians with their armed forces, in the use of which theywere very skilful. However, they were greatly oppressed,both by the multitude of the Gauls, and despair of success.But then the√Ütolians both men and women,placing them≠selves in every part of the road, pierced the Gauls withtheir darts, which it was no difficult matter to accomplish,because the Barbarians had no other defence than that oftheir thurioi. At the fame time they easily avoided theGauls when they were pursued by them, and, when theGauls abandoned the pursuit, again eagerly attacked them.Indeed, the Callienses, though the injuries which they sus≠tained from the Gauls were so great, that what Homerasserts of the L√¶strygons and Cyclops ought not to bereckoned fabulous, were at the fame time justly revengedon their enemies. For out of that great multitude of Gauls,which amounted to forty thousand eight hundred men,scarcely the half escaped to the camps at Thermopyl√¶.



But the transactions of the Greeks at Thermopyl√¶ atthe fame time w^re as follow: There are two pathsthrough the mountain Oeta : one of these, which is aboveTrachis, is very craggy and steep ; but the other, which isthrough √Ünian√¶, may be easily passed by foot soldiers.It was through this that the Mede Hydarncs once led hisforces, and came behind the Greeks that were commandedby Leonidas. They understood that the Heracleot√¶ and√Ünian√¶ were leading Brennus through this path, notfrom any malevolence to the Greeks, but in consequenceof being convinced that it would be a great undertaking,



if



 



OF GREECE. 



if they could induce the Barbarians to leave their countrybefore it was ruined- Hence, Pindar appears to me tohave spoken truly, when he says, that every one feels theweight of his own calamities, but is not affected with thesufferings of others. At that time, therefore, the promiseof the √Ünianae and Heracleot√¶ roused the courage ofBrennus, who leaving Acichorius in his camps, and in≠forming him that it would be proper for him to attackthe enemy, when he was certain that he was assaultingthem behind with a chosen band of forty thousand men,marched through the mountain Oeta. It happened, how≠ever, on that day, that the mountain was covered withsuch a thick mist, that the sun was darkened, so that thePhocenses, who guarded that passage of the mountain, didnot perceive the Barbarians till they were quite nearthem. Hence, some began to engage the Gauls, andothers strenuously sustained their attacks; but being atlength vanquished, they were compelled to abandon theirpost. With great celerity, therefore, before Greece wasentirely surrounded by the G auls, they returned to theirallies, and informed them of the impending danger. TheAthenians, immediately on this information, received intotheir galleys the Grecian forces at Thermopyl√¶, who af≠terwards returned to their respective, countries.



C H A P. XXIII.



But Brennus, waiting no longer than till Acichoriuswith his forces came from the camp, marched as soon ashe joined him to Delphos. The inhabitants on this oc≠casion fled to the oracle: and the god ordered them to



M  lay



i THE DESCRIPTION



lay aside their fear, and promised them that he would de≠fend his own. The Grecian cities that fought on this oc≠casion in order to take vengeance on the enemies of thegod were these*: The Phocenses from all their cities;four hundred henvy-armed soldiers from Amphissa. Fromthe √Ütolians, a few only assembled at first, when theywere told of the march of the Barbarians, but afterwardsPhilomelus led one thousand two hundred. Of the √Üto≠lians, such as were the most vigorous turned themselvesto the army of Acichorius. They did not however cometo any engagement with the Gauls, but molested the rearof their army as they were marching, plundered theirbaggage, and flew those that defended it. And by thismeans the march of the Barbarians was impeded. ButAcichoiius left a part of his forces at Heraclea, for thepurpose of defending the riches in his camp The armyof Brennus, therefore, was opposed by the Greeks thatassembled together at Dclphos. And the god at this timeshewed that he was adverse to the Barbarians, by prodigiesthe most conspicuous of any that we are acquainted with.For all that part of the earth which was occupied by thearmy of the Gauls, was violently shaken for the greaterpart of the day, and this was accompanied with continuedthunder and lightning. The Gauls in consequence os thiswere greatly terrified, and rendered incapable of hearingthe orders of their commanders. The lightning too thatdestroyed any individual, burnt at the fame time thosethat were near him, together with their arms. Besides allthis, the spectres of heroes were then seen‚ÄîHyperochus,Laodocus, and Pyrrhus ‚Ä¢, and the fourth of these, accord≠ing to the Delphi, was Fhylacus, who was a native oftheir city.



In



 



OF GREECE. 



In this engagement, however, many of the Phocensesfell, and among these Aleximachus, who in the vigour ofhis age, the strength of his body, and the ardour of hiszeal, surpassed all the Greeks. The Phoqenses afterwardssent his image to Apollo at Delphos. And such was theterror and slaughter to which the Gauls were exposed inthe day-time; but during the night they suffered stillmore severely. For the weather was vehemently cold,and this was accompanied with snow. Large stones, too,and fragments of rocks torn from Parnassus, fell on theBarbarians, as the destined mark at which they aimed.Nor was it only one or two that died by this means; butthirty, or still more, as they stood upon 'guard or slept inthe fame place, were at once dashed in pieces by the fall≠ing rocks. As soon as it was day too the Greeks pouredout of Delphos: and of these some marched in a directline to the army of the enemy; but the Phocenses, asbeing better acquainted with the nature of the place, de≠scended through the snow down the precipices of Parnas≠sus, and, attacking the Gauls behind, pierced the Barba≠rians with their darts and arrows in perfect security. Butwhen the two armies began to engage, the soldiers aboutBrcnnus, as they were the tallest and strongest of theGauls, vigorously resisted the Greeks; and though dartswere hurled at them on all sides, and they suffered greatlyby the cold, especially such as were'wounded, yet theystood their ground, till Brennus, through some woundswhich he had received, was carried out of the battle onthe point of expiring. For then the Barbarians beingpressed on every side by the Greeks, were forced unwil≠lingly to retreat, and flew those of their own party, whoM  thiough



 THE DESCRIPTION



through the wounds and weakness of their bodies wereunable to follow them.



The Gauls too were obliged to fix their camps in thatplace where the night came upon them during theirflight: and in the night,they were seized with a panicterror. For dread which is produced from no apparentcause, is-said to be sent by Pan. This terror seized thearmy of the Barbarians about midnight: and at first, afew of them were agitated with such irrational sear, thatthey seemed to themselves to hear the found of horsesadvancing towards them, arid to perceive the approach ofthe enemy. Not long after the whole army was infectedwith the fame stupid sear. In consequence of this theyhastily took up their arms; and a disagreement arisingamong them, they mutually flew each other, through thedarkness of the night, and their insane terror, neither un≠derstanding their native language, nor recognizing thecountenances of each other, nor the figure of their shields ibut each party fancied that the troops which it opposedwere Greeks, and that the arms which they saw, and thevoices which they heard, were Grecian. And this insanity,which was sent by divinity, caused a great multitude ofthe Gauls to flaughter each other. This rnaflacre toowas first of all perceived by those Phocenses who wereleft in the fields to guard the cattle ; and the Greeks wereinformed by these of what had happened to the BarbariansJn the night. The courage of the Phocenses, therefore,being roused by this intelligence, they rushed with greateralacrity on the Gauls, placed a stronger guard over theircattle, and were careful that no provision sliould be takenfrom their ficid without an engagement ensuing. In con≠sequence;



OF GREECE. i



sequence of this, the whole army of the Gauls labouredunder an extreme want of corn and every kind of nu≠triment.



But the multitude of the Gauls that died in Phocis inbattle was not much less than six thousand: those thatwere destroyed by cold in the night, and afterwards bypanic terror, were more than ten thousand; and a likenumber perished by famine. And this information re≠specting the Gauls, was obtained by means of men whowere sent by the Athenians to consult the Delphic oracle.The B≈ìotians likewise joined themselves to those Athe≠nians, who having moved their camps, marched throughBccotia: and both these following the Barbarians, perpe≠tually cut off by stratagem those that were in the rear oftheir army, The'sorces of Acichorius were not able tojpin those that fled with Brennus till the night precedingtheir flight. For the √Ütolians, by continually infestingthem with their darts, and every kind of missive weaponthat came to hand, rendered their march flow ; and hence,no great multitude of them escaped to the camp nearHeraclea. "With respect to Brennus, there was reason tohope that he would not die of his wound: but theyfay, thaf through fear of his fellow citizens, and stillmore through shame that he had been the cause of theGauls suffering such calamities in Greece, he voluntarilydestroyed himself by drinking pure wine. After hisdeath, the Barbarians with great difficulty reached theriver Sperchius, in consequence of the violent manner inwhich they were attacked by the √Ütolians. And whenthey arrived at the Sperchius, the Thessaiians and Ma-Jienses made such a slaughter of them, that not one wasJtft to return home. This war of the Gauls against the



Greeks,



tjo THE DESCRIPTION



Greek?, and the destruction of them which ensued inconsequence of it, happened when Anaxicrates was theAthenian archon, and in the second year of the one hun≠dred and twenty-fifth Olympiad, in which Ladas √Ügiensisconquered in the stadium. But in the following year, inwhich Democles was the Athenian archon, the Gaulsagain passed over into Asia. And such is the genuine ac≠count of the particulars of this war.



CHAP. XXIV.



In the vestibule of the Delphic tempi;, precepts usefulto the conduct of human life are written. These werecomposed by men who arc called wise by the Greeks, viz¬ªfrom Ionia, by Thales the Milesian, and Bias Prienensis:from the √Üolians in Lesbos, Pittacus the Mitylenaran:from the Dorians in Asia, Cleobulus the Lindian : besidesthese, Solon the Athenian, and Chilon the Spartan: andfor the seventli, Myson the Chenean enumerates Plato theson of Ariston, instead of Periander the son of Cypselus.Formerly the village Chcn√¶ in the mountain Oeta was in≠habited. These wise men therefore coming to Dclpbos, de≠dicated to Apollo those celebrated sentences, Know tfastlfyand Nothing immoderately: and these sentences they wrotein the vestibule of the temple. You may fee too here abrazen statue of Homer on a pillar ; and on it the followingoracle of Apollo respecting Homer is inscribed: " Blessedand unfortunate ‚Ä¢, for thou art born to each of these. En≠quire after thy country ; for thou hast a maternal, but nota paternal land. The ifland Ios is thy mother's country,



which



OF GREECE. it



which shall receive thee when dead. But guard againstthe √¶nigma of boys." The Iet√¶ too shew the sepukhreof Homer in the island, and in a separate place the tombof Clymene, who, they say, was the mother of Homer.The Cyprians, however, for they contend that Homer wasborn among them, fay that his mother was Themisto, anative of their country: but Euclus thus prophesies con≠cerning his origin: "Then in the sea-girt Cyprus amighty poet shall arise, whom the divine Themiito shallbring forth in the wealthy fields of Salamis. But he de≠parting from Cyprus, and sailing on the deep, shall singthe first of all men the calamities of spacious Greece, andshall be himself immortal, and free from the depredationsof age."



This account of Homer I have given in consequenceef what I have heard from others, and from what Ihave read in oracles: for I have written nothingwhichIs the result of my own opinion, either concerning,hiicountry or age. In the temple itself there is an altar ofNeptune, because the most ancient oracle was the pro≠perty of this god. There are likewise two statues of theParc√¶; but Jupiter Moiragetes, or the leader of the Fates,is dedicated instead of the third of the Parcre A ,r!!oMoiragetes too stands near them. You may also see here ahearth, upon which the priest of Apollo flew Neoptolemusthe son of Achilles, of whose death I have elsewhere mademention. Not far from hence there is a throne of Pin≠dar, upon which, they fay, Pindar fat whenever he cameto Delphos, and fang the verses which he composedih honour of Apollo. In the most inward part of thetemple, into which but few are admitted, there is anot'iergolden statue / Apollo. On leaving the temp!-, and



turning



i THE DESCRIPTION



turning to the left hand, you will see an inclosure, whichcontains the tomb of Neoptolemus the son of Achilles,to whom the Delphi perform funeral sacrifices every year.On ascending from this monument, you will see a stoneof a moderate size. This they anoint with oil every day,and during every festival cover it with new-stiorn wool.They are of opinion respecting this stone, that it wasjyven to Saturn as a substitute for the infant Jupiter, andthat he afterwards threw it up by a vomit. On leavingthis stone, and directing your course aa if back again tothe temple, you will see a fountain which is called CassotisThere is a wall of a moderate size before it: and throughthe wall there is a passage of ascent to the fountain. Theyfay, that the water of this fountain merges itself in theearth, and causes the women in the adytum of the godto possess prophetic powers. They add, that the foun≠tain was denominated from one of the nymphs aboutParnaflus.



CHAP. XXV.



BEYOND the fountain Cassotis there is a buildingwhich contains the pictures of Polygnotus, which werededicated by the Gnidians. The Delphi call this buildingLtfche; because formerly men used to discuss serious andtrifling affairs in it. Homer, in the abusive speech ofMelantho to Ulysses, evinces that there were many suchplaces in every part of Greece:



"Hence to the Lefcbe, from the midnight air,Or some bLck forge the vagrant's haunt repair."



On entering this building, you will fee on the kft hand of



the



OF GREECE. 



the wall the subversion of Troy, and the Greeks sailing totheir native land. Menelaus too is represented on boardhis Ihip preparing to depart from Troy; and in the (hipboys and men are seen standing together. In the middle¬´f the (hip the pilot Phrontis is represented distributingthe eontoi, or bargemen's poles. Homer, indeed, among otherthings which he makes Nestor fay to Telemachus, repre≠sents him asserting of Phrontis, that he was the son ofOnestor, that he was the pilot of Menelaus, that he wasmost skilful in his art, and that he died when they hadsailed beyond the promontory Suniuru in the Attic land.Nestor too relates, that Menelaus sailed with him to thatplace, and that he staid there till they had raised a tomb,and performed such funeral honours as are usually paidto the dead. Menelaus therefore is painted in this picture.Beneath him Ithaemenes is painted,carrying a certain gar≠ment, together with Echocax descending by a naval ladderto the sea with a brazen urn. Polites, Strophius, and Al-phius are represented taking down the tent of Menelaus,which is not far from the ship; and Amphialus is seentaking down another tent.



A boy sits at the feet of Amphialus; but there is noinscription on him. Phrontis is the only person in thisgroup that has a beard; and Polygnotus learnt his namealone from the Odyssey; for it appears to me, that theother names are his own invention. Briseis too is repre≠sented in this picture ; above her stands Diomed, and nearboth of them Iphis; and they are in the attitude of per≠sons admiring the form of Helen. Helen herself is seated;and near her stands Eurybates, who, as we may conjec≠ture, was the herald of Ulysses. He is however withouta beard. There are besides two maid servants, Electra



and



i THE DESCRIPTION



and Panthalis, the latter of whom stands by Helen, andthe former is represented fastening the shoes of her mis-tr.ss. These names too are different from .those which arcadopted by Homer in the Iliad, where he describes Helenand her maids on the walls of Troy. A man clothed inpurple, and extremely sorrowful, sits above Helen: andbefore you read the inscription, you may easily conjecturethat this is Helenus. Near Helenus Meges stands. Hisarm is wounded, agreeably to the account given of himby Lescheus Pyrrh√¶us, the son of √Üschylenus, in his poemon the destruction of Troy. This Lescheus informs us,that he was wounded by the Argive Admetus in thatbattle which the Trojans fought in the night. Lycomedesthe son of Creon stands near Meges. He is representedwounded in the wrist : and, according to Lescheus, he re≠ceived this wound from Agenor. It is evident, therefore,thatPolygnotus would not have painted him in this manner,unless he had read the poetical compositions of Lescheus.Lycomedes likewise received two wounds besides this, onein the foot, and the other in the head: and these Poly-gnotus has represented in the picture. Euryalus, too, theson of Mecisteus, appears with two wounds, one in thehead, and the other in the wrist. All these are aboveHelen in the picture. After Helen, √Üthra the mother ofTheseus is painted, with her hair (haven off to her skin;together with Demophon the son os Theseus, who is re≠presented considering whether it is possible for him tosave √Üthra. The Argives fay, that Melanippus was theson of Theseus by the daughter of Synnis, and that heconquered in the race, when those who are called theEpigonoi established the second Nemean games afterAdrastus.



Lescheus



 



OF GREECE. 



Lescheus relates in his verses, that when Troy wastaken, √Üthra escaped, and came to the camps of theGreeks; that she was there known by the sons of Theseus,and that Demophon requested her in marriage s Aga≠memnon. That he indeed was willing to gratify Demophon,but that he said he would not accomplish their desires, tillhe had gained the consent of Helen. A herald thereforebeing sent to Helen, found her disposed to the match.Hence, in the picture, Eurybates appears addressing Helenon account of √Üthra, and delivering to her the messageof Agamemnon. Trojan women too are represented inthis picture in the habit of mourning captives. The firstof these is Andromache with an infant at her breast.Lescheus fays, that this infant was thrown from a tower,not indeed by the decree of the Greeks, but through theprivate hatred of Neoptolemus, who ordered him to beput to death. Medesicaste likewise is painted here, whowas one of the bastard daughters of Priam, who, accord≠ing to Homer, dwelt in the city Ped√¶um, and was mar≠ried to Imbrius the son of Mentor. Andromache andMedesicaste are veiled: but Polyxena is painted with herhair platted after the manner of virgins. Poets sing, andthe pictures which I have seen at Athens, and Pergamuswhich is a city above Cakus, in which die calamities ofPolyxena are painted, evince, that she was slain at thetomb of Achilles. Polygnotus too has painted in thefame picture, Nestor with a hat on his he.id, and a spearin his hand. A 'horse rolling in the dust is seen nearhim. The ground on which the horse lies is the sea shore jand the pebbles on the sliore are represented. The re≠maining part of the ground does not appear to resemblethe sea shore. ,



CHAP.



i< THE DESCRIPTION



‚Ä¢ CHAP. XXVI.



AbOVE those women which are between √Üthra andNestor, other captives are painted, viz. Clymene, Creusa,Aristomache, and Xenodice. Stesichorus, in his . poemon the destruction of Troy, ranks Clymene among thecaptives. In 'a similar manner the poet Ennus fays, thatAristomache was the daughter of Priam, and that she wasmarried to Critolaus the son of Icetaon. But I do notknow of any poet, or prose writer, that makes men≠tion of Xenodice. It is said of Creusa, that she wastaken from the Greeks, and restored to liberty by theMother of the Gods and Venus, and that flie was the wifeof √Üneas. Lescheus, however, and the author of theCyprian verses, fay that Eurydice was the wife of √Üneas.Above these Deinomoe, Metioche, Pifis, and Cleodiceare painted reclining on a bed. The name of one of theseonly is mentioned in the poem called the Small Iliad:and it appears to me, that Polygnotus invented the othernames. Here too Epeus is painted, throwing down thewalls of Troy from their foundations. And the onlything above these is the head of the horse Durateus. Poly-poetes likewise the son of Pirithous is painted, having hishead bound with a fillet. Acamas the son of Theseusstands by him with a helmet on his head, and a CTeston the helmet. Ulysses too is present, and is investedwith a coat of mail. Ajax the son of Oileus approacheswith a shield to the altar, in order to swear before heoffers violence to Cassandra. But Cassandra fits on the



ground,



OF GREECE. 



ground, holding the wooden image of Minerva, which shetore from its basis, when Ajax drew her from her sup≠plications ac the altar. The sons of Atrcus likewise arcpainted with helmets on their heads. But on the fliieldof Menelaus there is a dragon, viz. the one that appearedas an omen during the sacrifice at Aulis. These administerthe oath to Ajax. Opposite to trie horse, NeoptoJemus isbeheld near Nestor, flaying Elassus. This Elassus, whoeverhe was, resembles a man nearly expiring. Neoptolemustoo strikes with his sword Astynous, who has fallen on hisknees, and who is mentioned by Leseheus. Tolygnotus,indeed, is the only one of the Greeks that has representedNeoptolemus still continuing to flay the Trojans; and hisdesign in this was, that the whole picture might cor-*respond to the tomb of Neoptolemus. Homer, indeed,every where calls Neoptolemus the Ion of Achilles; butthe Cyprian verses testify that he was called Pyrrhus byLycomedes, and that the name of Neoptolemus was givento him by Ph≈ìnix, because Achilles was very young whenhe first engaged in war.



An altar too is painted here, and a little boy embracingthe altar through fear. On the altar there is a brazencoat of mail. At present the shape of such coats of mailas this is very rare; but they were used in former times.In thi coat of mail there are two pieces of brass, one ofwhich serves to fasten it to the breast, and the parts aboutthe belly, and the other defends the back: the anteriorpart of this coat of mail they call gualcti, and the hinderpart prosegon. It appears too to be a sufficient defence forthe body without a shield. On this account, Homer re≠presents the Phrygian Pharcys fighting without a shield,because he used a guakthqrax, or holkvi coot sf mail. I be-



Vot. III. N held



 THE DESCRIPTION



held the image of this coat of mail in the picture ofPolygnotus And in the temple of Ephesian Diana, Cal-liphon the Samian has painted certain women adaptingthe hollow parts of a coat of mail to Patroclus. Polygnotuslikewise has painted in this picture Laodice standing be≠yond the altar. I do not know of any poet that hasmentioned her among the Trojan captives; and it ap≠pears to me very probable that she was dismissed by theGreeks. Homer, indeed, in the Iliad, evinces that Mene-laus and Ulysses were entertained by Antenor, and thatLaodice was married to Helicaon the son of Antenor.Lescheus asserts, that Helicaon being wounded in the noc≠turnal engagement, was known by Ulysses, and freed fromthe danger of the fight. It may therefore be easily be≠lieved, that neither Agamemnon nor Menelaus would actin an hostile manner towards the wife of Helicaon. How≠ever, Eupherion Chalcidensis asserts things respectingLaodice, which are utterly void of probability. AsterLaodice there is a stone prop, on which there is a brazenlaver. Medusa sits on the ground, holding this prop with‚ñ†both her hands. Any one may rank Medusa among thedaughters of Priam, who has read the ode of Himeraeus.Near Medusa there is an eld woman with her hair shaven,to the skin; or perhaps this may be an eunuch. Sheholds a naked infant on her knees: and the infant is re≠presented hcjding his hand before his eyes, through fear.



CHAP.



OF GREECE. *



CHAP. XXVtl.



TH respect to the dead bodies in the picture, oneof them is Pelis, who is naked, and is thrown on his fide.Beneath him Eioneus and Admetus lie, having on theircoats of mail. Lescheus informs us, that Eioneus was llainby Neoptolemus, and Admetus by Philoctetes. Abovethese theje are other dead bodies. Under the laver Leo-critus the son of Polydamas lies, who was slain by Ulysses.Above Eioneus and Admetus is Cor≈ìbus the son ofMygdon. There is a noble monument of this Mygdonin the borders of the Ectorean Phrygians: and from himpoets denominate the Phrygians, Mygdonians. Cor≈ìbuscame to the wedding of Cassandra; and, according togeneral report, was slain by Neoptolemus. Lescheus faysthat he was slain by'Diomed. Above Cor≈ìbus are Priam,Axion, and Agenor. Lescheus informs us, that Priam wasnot slain at the altar of Hercean Jupiter, but being draggedfrom the altar was beheaded by Neoptolemus, when hemet him before the doors of the palace. With respect toHecuba, Stesichorus, in his potm on the destruction ofTroy, fays that flie was transported by Apollo to Lycia. ButLescheus fays, that Axion was the son of Priam, and that,he was slain by Eurypylus the son of Eusemon. The famepoet too asserts that Neoptolenlus slew Agenor. Andhence it appears, that Echcclus the sort of Agenor wasslain by Achilles, and Agenor himself by Neoptolemus.Sinon the companion of Ulysses and Anchialus arc car≠rying out the dead body of Laomedon. Another deadbody is painted here, whose name is Eresus. I do not



N  know



jo THE DESCRIPTION



know of any poet that has mentioned Eresus and Lao-medon in his verses. Here too the house of Antenor isrepresented; and over the vestibule of it the skin of aleopard is suspended. This was hung up as a signal to theGreeks, that they should not injure the house of Antenor.Theano likewise is painted with her sons. One of these,Glaucus, sits on a coat of mail joined together with hol≠low parts t and Eurymachus sits on a stone. Near himstands Antenor, and after him follows Crino the daughterof Antenor. She holds in her arms an infant boy. AHthese are painted with sorrowful countenances. Servantsare placing a chest and other furniture on an ass : and alittle boy sits on the ass. In this part of the picture thereis the following elegy of Simonides:



I a



The artist l'olygnotus, for his sireWho claims Aglaophon, in Thasus born.Painted the captur'd tower of Troy.



CHAP. XXVHI.



ThE other part of the picture, which is on the lefthand, represents Ulysses descending to Hades, that he mayconsult the soul of Tiresias about his safe return to his na≠tive country. The particulars of the painting are as fol≠low:‚ÄîA river presents itself to the view, which is evidentlyAcheson. Reeds are seen in this river, and fishes whoseforms are so obscure that you might conjecture they wererather shadows than fishes. There is a ship too in thisriver, and a ferryman standing by its oars. Polygnotus, asit appears to me, in this part of the picture had an eye to



the



OF GREECE. 



the poem called Minyas, in which there are the followingverses upon Theseus and Pirithous:



"Old Charon in his vessel fill'd with shadesRefus'd these living heroes to admit.



r Hence Polygnotus has reprtsented Charon as an old man.The persons in this vefiei cannot be very clearly discerned.However, Tellis, who is very young, is among these, arWCleoboea as yet a virgin. On her knees she supports a cista,or chest, resembling such as are used in the solemn fes≠tivals of Ceres. With respect toTellis, I have only heardthus much, that the poet Archilochus was his greatgrandson. They say that Cleoboea was the first thatbrought the mysteries of Ceres from the ifland Paros toThasus. On the banks of Acheron, an affair is repre*sented, which deserves to be particularly noticed. A littlebelow Charon, a son who had behaved unjustly to hisfather, is strangled by his father. For the ancients verymuch reverenced their parents, as may be inferred fromother examples, and from the actions of those in Catana,who are called the pious. For when this city was set onsire by mount √Ütna, these paid no attention to the pre≠servation of their silver and gold, but one of them took uphis father in his arms, and the other his mother, an/ fledwith-them out of the city. Through the rapid fury how≠ever of the fire, they found great difficulty in makingtheir escape; yet notwithstanding this, they did not leavetheir parents, but palled through the stream of fire, which,as they fay, separated itself into two parts, and neither in≠jured them nor their parents. These youths are even atpresent honoured by the Catan√¶ans. ..



In this picture of Polygnotus, near the man who injured



his father, and is on this account punished in Hades, there



N  is



‚ñ†



ia THE DESCRIPTION



is a man. suffering punishment for sacrilege. A womanwell acquainted with poisons, and other instruments ofpunishment, is represented tormenting him. Men there-ifore at that tine were' remarkably pious towards thegods: and this the Athenians evinced when they rook thetemple of Olympian Jupiter among the Syracusans; forthey .did not move any of die sacred offerings, and sufferedthe Syraciisan priest who guarded the offerings still tocontinue his office. This too the Mede Datis evinced:for having found a statue of Apollo in a Ph≈ìnician ship,, he immediately gave it to the Tanagr√¶ans to be carriedback to Delium. So that at that time all men venerateda divine nature; and Polygnotus well knowing this,painted the man suffering in Hades for sacrilege. Abovethose which we have now enumerated is Euryhomus,who, according to the Delphic interpretersr of sacred con-?cerns, is one of the d√¶mons belonging to Hades, and whoeats the flesh of dead bodies, so as to leave the bonesquite bare. However, neither Homer in the Odyssey, northe poetical composition which is called Minyas, nor theverses which are denominated No/hi, or the Return (for inthese there is an account of Hades and its terrors), makeany mention of the d√¶mon Eurynomus I shall thereforedescribe the figure of Eurynomus as he appears in thispicture. His colour is between azure and black, and islike that of flies which irifest meat. He shews his teethjand firs on the skin of a vulture. Auge and Iphimedea fromArcadia present themselves to the view after Eurynomus.Auge came to MyGa, which is near Tcuthras, and is saidto have brought forth a son the most like his father, ofall the women with which Hercules wr.s connected. Buithe Carians in Myless√¶ pay great honours to Iphimedea. CHAP,



OF GREECE. x



CHAP. XXIX.



Above those which I have now numerated, this picturecontains a representation of the companions of Ulysses,Perimedes and Eurylochus, carrying victims; and theseare black rams. After these there is a man seated; andthe inscription shews that he is Ocnus. He is representedtwisting a rope : and a female ass stands by him, who eatsthe rope as fast he twists it. They fay that this Ocnuswas an industrious man, who had an expensive wife; andthat whatever he collected by his industry, she soon afterfound means to consume. They are of opinion, therefore,that Polygnotus designed to represent this affair by therope-maker and his ass. I know, indeed, that the lonians,when they fee a man very industrious, but at the fametime labouring without any emolument, fay that he twiststhe rope of Ocnus. Diviners, too, who prophesy fromthe flight os birds, call a certain bird Ocnus: and thisbird is the largest and most beautiful of herons, and at thefame time is very rare. Tityus too is painted in this picture;and is represented as no longer punished, but perfectlywearied out with uninterrupted punishment. There islikewise a certain obscure and imperfect image. On turn≠ing your attention to the other parts of the picture, youwill fee Ariadne very near the man who twists the rope.She sits on a rock, and looks at her sister Ph√¶dra: andher body is suspended by a rope which she holds withboth her hands. Indeed the particulars respecting th¬´death of Ph√¶dra are here signified in a more becomingmanner. But Bacchus took away Ariadne from Theseus,



N  either



X THE DESCRIPTION



either through the interference of some divine power, orby stratagem, as his naval forces were much superior tnthose of Theseus. This Bacchus, too, in my opinion, wasthe fame with the one who first led an army to the Indies,and first raised bridges over the Euphrates, in that partof the city which is called Zeugma, and where even atpresent a repe is preserved, made of vine and ivy twigs,which Bacchus is said to haye used when he built thebridges. Many things indeed are reported concerningBacchus, both by the Greeks and Egyptian*.



Under Phxdra Chloris reclines on the knees of Thyia.He who asserts that a great friendship subsisted betweenthese women, while living, will certainly not err. ThisChloris was a native of Orchomenus in Bceotia: and itis said by some that she married Neleus the son of Ncp-'tune, at that time when Neptune had connection withThyia. Procris the daughter of Erechtheus stands nearThyia : and after her you may fee Clymene", with her backtowards Thyia. In the poem called Nostpi, it is said tha^Clymene was the daughter of Minyas, and that.she wasmarried to Cephalus the son of Deion, by whom she hadIphiclus. Of Procris it is universally said, that before.Clymene she was married to Cephalus, and that she wasstain by her husband. In the more interior part of thepicture, after Clymene you may see the Theban Megara,‚Ä¢who was the wife of Hercules. She was however atlength dismissed by Hercules, in consequence of his beingdeprived of all the children which he had by her, and be-:lieving that his connection with- her was inauspicious.Above the heads of those women we have just mentioned,is the dajighter of Salmoneus sitting on a stone. Eriphylcstands near her, and raises the extremities of her fingers



through



OF GREECE. 



through her garment to her neck. You may conjecture,that she holds a necklace in that hand which is concealedin the folds of the garment. Elpenor is represented aboveEriphyle and Ulysses kneeling, and holding a sword overa ditch. The prophet Tiresias approaches to the ditch;and after Tiresias, Anticlea the mother of Ulysses is seensitting on a stone. Elpenor is covered with a mat madeof bulrushes, after the manner of sailors, instead of a gar≠ment. Theseus and Pirithous fit on a throne below Ulysses:and of these Theseus holds the sword of Pirithous, andhis own sword, in both his hands; but Pirithous looks atthe swords, and seems to be indignant that he has noweapons to accomplish his daring enterprise. PanyaGsaflerts in his verses, that Theseus and Pirithous were notbound to the throne like captives, but that a stone grewto their skin, and served instead of bonds. Homer in bothhis poems mentions the celebrated friendship of Theseus?nd Pirithous. For Ulysses thus speaks to the Ph√¶acians;



"Th' illustrious Theseus' and Pirithous' sliades,Fam'd sons of gods, I then perhaps had seen."



And in the Iliad, Nestor, when he exhorts Agamemnonand Achilles to lay aside their enmity, thus speaks:



"A godlike race of heroes once I knew,



Such as no more these aged eyes shall view! ,



Lives there a chief to match Pirithous' fame,



Dryas the bold, or Ccncus' deathless name;



Theseus endued with more than mortal might,



pr Polyphemus like the gods in fight?"



CHAP,



i THE DESCRIPTION



CHAP. XXX.



AfTER these Polygnotus has painted the daughters ofPandarus. Homer, in the speeches of Penelope, fays, thatthrough the anger of the gods, their parents died whilethey were virgins, and that thus becoming orphans theywere educated by Venus. That they likewise received otherbenefits from other goddesses; as for instance, sufficientprudence and beauty of form from Juno, tallness fromDiana, and such works as arc adapted to the female sexfrom Minerva. Lastly, that Venus ascended to heaven,and obtained from Jupiter prosperous nuptials for the vir≠gins; but that during the absence of Van us they wereseized hy the harpies, and delivered up to the Furies.And such is the account given of them by Homer. ButPolygnotus has crowned them with flowers, and has re≠presented them playing with dice. The names of thesewomen were Camiro and Clytie. It appears, too, thattheir father Pandarus was a Milesian, from Miletus aCretan city, and the associate of Tantalus, both in histheft, and fraudulent oath. After the daughters of Pan≠darus, Autilochus is seen, with one os his feet on a stone,and holding his head with both his hands. Agamemnonsucceeds Antilochus; and he is represented leaning withhis left arm on a sceptre, and holding a wand in hishands. Protesilaus fits looking at Achilles ; and Patroclusstands above Achilles. All these are beardless exceptAgamemnon. Phocus is painted above these, who appearsto- be quite a youth; together with lascus, who has a beard,



and.



OF GREECE. &



‚Ä¢nd is endeavouring to take off a ring from the left hand-finger of Phocus ; and this for the following reason:



"When Phocus the son of √Üacus passed over from√Ügina to that country which is now called Phocis, andobtained the government of that part of the continent,Iascus contracted a great friendship with him, and gavehim things suitable to his dignity, and a stone seal set ingold. But Phocus not long after this returning to √Ügina,lost his life through the stratagems of Peleus. On thisaccount, therefore, in the picture, Iascus is desirous thatthe seal may be considered as a monument of his friend≠ship j and Phocus very readily suffers him to take it offhis singer, that he may prove his friendlhip by shewing it.Above these is M√¶ra, sitting on a stone. In the poemcalled Nostoi, it is said that Ihe died while she was a vir≠gin; and that she was the daughter of Proetus, who wasthe son of Thersander, and the grandson of Sisyphus./ fter M√¶ra, you will fee Actxon the son of Arist√¶us,and his mother, holding the fawn of a hind in her hands,and sitting on the lkin of a hind. A hunting dog standsnear her ‚Ä¢, and this on account of the life of Act√¶on, andthe manner of his death. If again you look to the lowerparts of the picture, you will fee after Patroclus, Or≠pheus sitting on a certain hill, with a harp in his left hand,and in his right hand the leaves of a willow-tree. He isrepresented leaning on the trunk of this tree. The groveitself appears to be sacred to Proserpine, and abounds, asHomer represents it, with poplars and willows. Thefigure of Orpheus is Grecian; and neither his garment,nor the covering on his head, is Thracian. PromedonJeans on the other part of the willow.



Some are of opinion that thil^name was introduced by



Polygnotus,



iS THE DESCRIPTION



Polygndtus, as if he had found it in some poem. Others,again fay, that Promedon was a Grecian, who was verydesirous of hearing all kinds of music, and particularlythat of Orpheus. In this part of the picture too is Sche¬ªdius, who led the Phocenfes to Troy: and after him isPelias sitting on a throne, and whose beard is equallyhoary with his head. He is represented looking at Or-phcus. But Schedius holds a dagger in his hand, and iscrowned with grafs. Thamyris, whose sight is destroyed,fits near Pelias. His whole figure is that of a humble ab≠ject man i his hair- too and beard are thick and long. Nearhis feet there is a lyre, which appears to have beenthrown down, the bent parts of which are broken, andthe chords are burst. Above him is Marsyas silting ona stone j and near Marsyas, Olympus stands, who is aboy in the flower of his youth, and has the figure of. onelearning to play on. the pipe. The Phrygians who inhabitCei√¶n√¶ are of opinion, that the river which runs throughtheir country was once this Marsyas. They add, thatMarsyas invented that melody of the pipe which theGreeks call Metroes^ or harmony sacred to the mothtr os thegeds; and that he assisted them when they were attackedfey the Gauls, both by means of the water of the riverMarsyas, and the melody of his pipes,



CHAP. XXXI.



If you again look to the upper parts of the picture, youwill fee in a continued series, Salaminian Ajax next toAct√¶on, and afterwards Palamedes and Thersites play≠ing with dice, which wer^invented by Pakwnedes. The



other



OF GREECE. 



other Ajax is looking at them while they are playing. Thecolour of this Ajax is that of a sea-faring man ; .and hisbody is yet wet with the foam of the sea. Polygriotusseems to have collected the enemies of Ulysses into oneplace. But the reason why Ajax the son of Oileus hatedUlysses, was because Ulysses advised the Greeks to stoneAjax to death, for the daring wickedness of his conducttowards Cassandra. I know too from the Cyprian verses,that Palamedes, when he once went a-fifhing,was drownedby Ulysses and Diomed. A little above Oilean Ajax, Me- .leager the son of Oeneus is painted, and appears to belooking at Ajax. All these except Palamedes have beards.With respect to the death os Meleager, Homer informsus, that he was destroyed by one of the Furies, throughthe imprecations of Alth√¶a. But the poem called the greatEoea, and likewise the verses which are denominatedMinyaSy fay, that the Curetes were assisted by Apolloagainst the √Ütolians, and that Meleager was flain byApollo. With respect to the firebrand, too, as that it wasgiven by the Fates to Alth√¶a, that Meleager would ne≠cessarily die when it was consumed by fire, and that Al≠th√¶a in a sit of anger burnt it‚Äîthese particulars werefirst of all described by Phrynichus the son of Polyphrad-mon, in the drama Pleuron:



"Dcstin'd to a horrid fateThrough his vengeful mother's hate;Through her machinations dire,lie wa", picre'd to death by fire,By a brand's devouring flame,Kindled by the fraudful dame."



However, Phrynichus does not fay much respectingthis affair, which it might be supposed he would have



done,



\



loo THE DESCRIPTION



done, if it had been his own invention. And hence itappears to me, that he just mentions this circumstanceas a thing well known to all Greece. In the lowest partsof the picture, after the Thracian Thamyris, you will feeHector fitting with both his hands on his left knee, andexhibiting the appearance of a man oppressed with sorrow.After him is Memnon sitting on a stone; and close byhim is Sarpedon leaning with his face on both his hands.But one of the hands of Memnon is placed on the shoulderos Sarpedon. And all these have a beard. In the robeof Memnon too birds are painted: and these birds arecalled Memnonides. The inhabitants of Hellespont saythat these birds, on stated days every year, fly to the se≠pulchre of Memnon, and dig up every part about the tombthat is void of trees and grafs, and afterwards sprinklesuch parts with their wings which are wet with the waterof the river √Üsepus. Near Memnon there is a naked√Üthiopian boy, because Memnon was a king of the√Üthiopians. However, he came to the Trojan ‚Ä¢war, notfrom √Üthiopia, but from Susa a Persian city, and theriver Choaspes; having vanquished all those nations whichare situated between Susa and the Choaspes. The Phry≠gians too, even at present, shew a road through which heled his army at that time when he was selecting theshortest passages. This road is cut through desert places.Above Sarpedon and Memnon, Paris is painted, as yet abeardless youth. He is represented clapping his handsalter the manner of rustics; and you may conjecture, thatby this clapping he calls Penthesilea. Penthesilea too islooking at Paris; and by her countenance she appears todespise him, and to consider him as a man of no estima≠tion. But the figure of Penthesilea is that of a virgin,



with



OF GREECE. it



with a bow like those in Scythia, and with the skin of aleopard thrown about her shoulders.



Above Penthefilea there are certain persons carryingwater in earthen urns full of holes. One of these re≠sembles a virgin in the flower of her youth, but the otherappears to be more advanced in age. There is no inscrip≠tion on each of these women; but a common inscriptionon them shews that they are of the number of the unini≠tiated. The women that are above these are, Callistothe daughter of Lycaon, Nomia, and Pero the daughterof Neleus, For this last, Ncleus demands an ox of Iphi-clus as a sponfal gist. Callisto has the hide of a bear forher bed-covering; and her feet are placed on the knees ofNomia. I have before shewn that, according to the Ar≠cadians, Nomia was one of the nymphs belonging totheir country. According to poets, indeed, nymphs livea great number of years, but yet are not entirely exemptfrom death. After Callisto and the women that are withher, there is a representation of a precipice, to ^he sum≠mit of which Sisyphus the son of, √Üolus endeavours toroll a stone. In the fame part of the picture there are a'large vessel, an old man, a boy, and women sitting on astone. One of these, of the same age with the old man,stands by him; but the others are carrying water. Youmay conjecture that the old woman is pouring out theremains of the water from the perforated vessel, into thelarge vessel again. It appears to me, that these person*despised the Eleufinian mysteries. For the more ancientGreeks considered these mysteries as much superior indignity to all other institutions, which lead to piety, asgods are to heroes. Below this large vessel, Tantalus isrepresented suffering those punishments wluch are men≠



tioned



ipi THE DESCRIPTION



tioned by Homer; and besides these, he is terrified lest dstone which hangs over his head should fall on him. Itis evident that Polygnotus followed Archilochus in this >but I cannot tell whether Archilochus was instructed inthe particulars belonging to this stone by others. Andib numerous are the figures, and such the elegance of thepicture which the Thasian artist painted.



C H A P. XXXII.



A. THEATRE, which deserves to be inspected, joins tctthe enclosure of the temple. And on ascending from the. enclosure, you will see a statue of Bacchus which was de≠dicated by the Cnidians. In the upper part too of thecity, there is a stadium, which is built of such stone usthe mountain Parnassus abounds with; and this remainedto the time of the Athenian Herodes, who aderned itwith Pentelican stone. And such are the particulars ofthings remaining even at present at Delphos, and whichdeserve to be mentioned. On proceeding from Delphosto the summits of Parnassus, at the distance of aboutsixty stadia, you will fee a brazen statue: and for a mannot heavily clothed, there is a rond here, by which hemay descend either with a mule or a horse to the ca≠vern Corycium. This cavern was thus denominated fromthe nymph Corycia, as I have a little before shewn. Osall the caverns that I have ever seen, I consider this asthe most admirable. For, indeed, no one would wishto discover the number of caverns on maritime coasts,and in the profundities of the sea j but there are some



of



OF GREECE.



of a great name both in Greece and among the Bar*barians. Thus the Phrygians that dwell near the rivetPeucella, and who derive their origin from Arcadia andthe Azanes, shew those who travel to their country a ca≠vern called Steunos. This cavern is round, and its alti≠tude is accommodated to descent; and within it there isa temple of the mother of the gods, and a statue of thegoddess. Themisonium is a city above Laodicea, and itinhabited by the Phrygians: and when the army of theGauls spread all over Ionia and the neighbouring coasts,bringing with them destruction wherever they came, theThemisonians fay, that Hercules, Apollo, and Mercury,gave them assistance; and that the rulers of their country‚Ä¢were admonished by these divinities in a dream, to orderthe men, women, and children, to conceal themselves ina cavern belonging to this city. In remembrance of thiscircumstance, they have placed before the cavern statuesof a moderate size of Hercules, Mercury, and Apollo:and these statues they call Spela'iui.



This cavern is about thirty stadia distant from the town $and in it there are fountains of water: but there isnot any path which leads to it, nor does the light of thefun penetrate far into it. And besides this, the greatestpart of the roof is very near the ground* Among theMagnetx too who dwell near the river Leth√¶us, thereis a place called Hyl√¶: and in it there is a cavern sacredto Apollo, which for its magnitude does not demand muchadmiration; but the statue of Apollo within this cavernis very ancient, and imparts strength in overy undertak≠ing. Hence, men that are sacred to Apollo leap fromprecipices and lofty rocks without sustaining any injury;and having torn up trees of a prodigious altitude by the



Vol. III. O roots,



i+ THE DESCRIPTION



roots, carry them with case through the narrowest: roads.The cavern Corycium, however, surpasses in magnitudethose we have mentioned; and the greatest part of it maybe descended into, and this without a light. The roof issufficiently elevated above the ground: and the caverncontains many fountains of water; but a still greaterquantity of water trickles from its top ; so that the vestigesof drops of water may be seen throughout the cavern.The inhabitants of Parnassus are of opinion, that thiscavern-is particularly sacred to the Corycian nymphs andto Pan. But from hence to the summits of Parnassus, theroad to a man lightly clothed is difficult. For the sum≠mits of this mountain are above the clouds; and the Thy-iades, agitated with divine fury, sacrifice on these summit*to Bacchus and Apollo. Tithorea too is about eightystadia distant from Delphos, to one who is travellingthrough Parnassu*. The road is not entirely mountain≠ous ‚Ä¢, but that part of it which may be passed through bycarriages is said to be longer by some stadia. As to thename of the city, I know that Herodotus, in that part ofhis history in which he gives an account of the irruptionof the Persians into Greece, differs from what is assertedin the oracles of Bacis. For Bacis calls these people Ti-thorenscs; but Herodotus fays, that when the Barbariansinvaded this country, the inhabitants fied to the summitof Parnassus; and he calls the city Neon, and the summitof Parnassus Tithorea. It appears, therefore, that all thecountry was at first called Tithorea; but that in processof time, when the inhabitants collected themselves intoone city, that which was once called Neon came to bedenominated Tithorea.The natives fay, that this name was derived from the



nymph



 



OF GREECE. 



nymph Tithorea, who was one of those nymphs that, ac≠cording to the ancient poets, are produced from othertrees, and particularly from oaks. But the affairs of theTithoreans, one age prior to mine, were changed by thed√¶mon to a worse condition. At present, however, theapparatus of a theatre, and the inclosure of a more an≠cient forum, remain. The particulars in the city, whichmostly deserve to be mentioned, are a grove, temple, andstatue of Minerva; and a monument in remembrance ofAntiope and Phocus. In my account of the affairs of theThebans, I mentioned the insanity of Antiope, throughthe anger of Bacchus, and on what account she becamethe victim of divine anger. I shewed too in the sameplace, that she was married to Phocus the son of Orny-tion, and was buried with him : and besides this, I indi≠cated what the oracle of Bacis asserted, both concerningthis sepulchre, and that of Zethus and Amphion amongthe Thebans. And such are the particulars which de≠serve to be mentioned in this town; for there are not anybesides these. A river runs near the city of Tithorea;and the inhabitants of the city descend to its banks, anddraw water from it. The name of the river is Cachales.The temple of √Üsculapius is about eighty stadia distantfrom Tithorea: and they call this god Archagetas, or theprim√¶val divinity. He is honoured by the Tithoreans,and by the rest of the Phocenfes. Within the inclosurethere are habitations for suppliants and the servants of thegod: but in the middle of it there is a temple, and a stonestatue which has a beard, and is about two feet in altitude.On the right hand of the statue there is a bed. They areof opinion that they ought to sacrifice all kinds of yictimsto the god, except goats. At the distance of about forty



O a stadia



 THE DESCRIPTION



stadia from this temple of √Üsculapius, there is an inclosure"?and in it there is an adytum sacred to Ifis. This is the mostholy of every thing which the Greeks consecrate to thisgoddess. For the Tithoreans neither think it proper totake up their residence here, nor to suffer any to enter theadytum, except such as the goddess Ifis informs them bya dream she thinks proper to admit. The subterraneangods in the cities above the M√¶ander act in just the famemanner; for they exhibit in dreams the images of thosepersons who they are willing should be admitted intothe adyta.



But the Tithoreans celebrate the Paneguris of Ifis twicea year, viz. in spring and in autumn. And on the thirdday prior to each of these public solemnities, those thatare permitted to enter the adytum purify it after a certainsecret manner; and always bring into the fame place therelics of the victims which were sacrificed in the formersolemnity, and bury them there. This place where theybury the relics, is, as far as I can conjecture, about twostadia distant from the adytum. And these are the cere≠monies which they perform on that day. On the follow≠ing day they erect pedlars tents from reeds and othermaterials which they happen to meet with. And on thelast of the three days, those who assemble in these tentsfell slaves, and cattle of every kind, together with appa≠rel, silver, and gold. After the middle of the day, too,they turn their attention to the sacrifice. And then themore affluent sacrifice oxen and stags; but the poorerfort geese, and the birds called Meleagrides. But theydo not think proper to sacrifice swine; nor do they em≠ploy on this occasion sheep or goats. Such victims asthey sacrifice they send into the adytum, where a funeral



 pile



 



OF GREECE. 



pile is raised for the sacrifice. They reckoifcit necessarytoo to roll round the victims linen or flaxen bandages.And this is the Egyptian mode of adorning the victims.But they cause all the victims which are immolated to passin the procession; and it is the employment of some tosend them into the adytum, and of others who are beforethe adytum to burn the tents; after which they speedilydepart from this place.



They fay too, that a certain person once among thenumber of those who are forbidden to enter the adytum,and who indeed was a profane man, when the pile wasenkindled, through curiosity and boldness entered the ady≠tum; that all parts of it appeared to him to be full ofspectres; and that on his returning to Tithonca, as soonas he had related all that he had seen, he died. I haveheard things similar to these of a certain Ph≈ìnician.They say that the Egyptians celebrate the festival of Isisin that part of the year in which she bewails Osiris;that then the Nile begins to ascend; and that the vulgarof the natives fay, that the tears of Isis cause the Nile toincrease and irrigate the fields. At that time, therefore,a certain Roman, who was the prefect of Egypt, per≠suaded a man, for a sum os money, to enter into theadytum of Isis in Coptos. This man returned indeed,but died as soon as he had told what he had seen.Homer, therefore, appears to speak truly when he says,that no man can clearly behold the gods, and at the fametime be prosperous in his affairs. But Tithor√¶a producesfewer olives than either the Attic or Sicyonian land. Itsolives, however, are superior both in colour and sweet≠ness to those which are brought from Spain and I stria.They form all various kinds of ointments from these, andsend these olives as a present to C√¶sar.



O CHAP,



j THE DESCRIPTION



CHAP. XXXIII.



But another road from Tithoraca leads to Ledon.This was formerly reckoned a city; but at present the Le-dontii have abandoned it, through the imbecility of theiraffairs, and about eighty of them reside near the Cephis-sus. However, the place of their residence is called Le≠don; and they form a part of the Phocenfian convention,just the fame as the Panopenses. But from the placewhich is now inhabited near the Cephissus, to the ruinsof the former city, there is a distance of forty stadia.They fay that the city was denominated from one of itsnatives. Other cities too, besides this, have been irre≠parably injured, through the unjust conduct of their in≠habitants. Thus Troy was entirely destroyed throughthe base behaviour of Paris towards Menelaus. Thus theMilesians, through the intemperate desire of and lawlesslove of Hesti√¶us, lost their city, while he was at one timewilling to reign in the city of Edonis, at another time tobe the counsellor of Darius, and sometimes to return toIonia. And thus the Lcdentii severely suffered throughthe sacrilegious conduct of Philomelus. But Lil√¶a isdistant from Delphos about one winter-day's journey; andyou descend to it through Parnassus. I conjecture thatthe distance is about one hundred and eighty stadia. Asecond unfortunate circumstance from Macedonia op≠pressed this city after it was restored: for, being besiegedby Demetrius, the inhabitants were obliged to accede toconditions of peace, and to admit a guard belonging tothe enemy within their walls. Nor were they freed fromthis bondage, till one of the natives, whose name was



Patron,



OF GREECE. 



Patron, incited all those that were capable of bearing armsto rife, and, having vanquished the Macedonians, com≠pelled them to abandon the city, and accede to the condi≠tions which he proposed. And the Lil√¶ans, in remem≠brance of so great a benefit, dedicated his statue atDelphos.



But in Lil√¶a there are a theatre, a forum, and a bath.There are likewise two temples, one of Apollo, and theother of Diana. The statues in these temples are in an up≠right position, were made by Attic artists, and are of Pen-telican stone. They fay that Lilaea was one of the Naiades,that she was the daughter of Cephissus, and that from herthe city was denominated. The fountains of the river arein this place; and the river, rises from the earth, not atall times quietly, but for the most part, and particularlyin the middle of the day, with a loud noise, like the roar≠ing of a bull. For three parts of the year, viz. in' spring,summer, and autumn, Lil√¶a is a temperate region; butthe mountain Parnassus prevents it from being similarlytemperate in winter. A place called Cbaradra, which issituated on a precipice, is about thirty stadia distant fromhence. The inhabitants of this place labour under a greatscarcity of water. The river Charadrus supplies themwith all the water they have; and this river, after run≠ning through shelving places, pours itself into the Cephis*sus. It appears to me that the town Charadra was de≠nominated from this river. But the Charadrse have twoaltars in the open air sacred to two of those who are calledheroes. Some are of opinion that these heroes are theDioscuri; and others fay that they are heroes belongingto this country. The land too about the Cephissus is byfar the best in all Phocis; and is naturally adapted to the



O  plantation



so* THE DESCRIPTION



plantation of trees, and the sowing of seeds of every kind;,and abounds with excellent pastures. Hence they payparticular attention to the cultivation of this part of thecountry. And hence there are some who think that Ho≠mer in the following verse, by the Parapotamii, or inha≠bitants of the river, does not allude to a city, but to thosewho cultivate the land near the Cephissus:



"And those who near divine Cephissus dwell.'*



This opinion, however, may be confuted, both by thehistory of Herodotus, and the particulars which are re≠lated of the Pythian victories. For the Amphictyons firstinstituted the Pythian games, and the Parapotamian √Üch-mseas was the first that in these games conquered boysin boxing. In like manner Herodotus, when he enume≠rates the cities of the Phocenscs which Xerxes burnt,reckons among them the Parapotamians. These people,however, were not restored by the Athenians and B≈ìo≠tians, but were obliged through imbecility, and want ofmoney, to betake themselves to other cities. The ruins,indeed, of this city do not at present remain, nor is iteven known where it formerly stood.



From Lil√¶a there is a road of about sixty stadia inlength, which leads to Amphiclea. The inhabitants ofthis place have corrupted the name of the city: for He≠rodotus, following the most ancient reports, calls it Ophi≠tea: and the Amphictyons, when a decree was passedfpr destroying the cities of the Phocenses, gave it the namepf Ophitea. But the natives relate the following particu≠lars concerning this city: A certain powerful man, sus≠pecting the stratagems of his enemies, placed his son in avessel sijch as is used for the reception of liquor^ trusting



OF GREECE. 



that in this place he would be concealed with security. Awolf, however, rushed on the boy in his place of conceal≠ment-, but a strong dragon winding himself round the ves≠sel, defended him from the assaults of the wolf. The fathersome time after this came to fee his son, and supposingthat the dragon had destroyed him, hurled his dart at theanimal, and, together with the dragon, flew his son. Butwhen he understood from certain shepherds that the boywas slain by his own hands, and that the dragon had beenthe benevolent guardian of his son, he raised a funeralpile for the dragon and the boy in common: and they saythat the place retains vestiges of this funeral pile even atpresent, and that the city was denominated Ophitea fromthe dragon. In this city, that which principally deserve*to be inspected is an adytum, in which they perform theorgies of Bacchus. The entrance to this adytum is visible,but no statue belonging to it is apparent. It is said by theAmphiclcenses,that this god predicts to them future events,and affords them remedies against diseases. And the dis≠eases, indeed, of the Amphicleenses and neighbouringcities are healed through the information imparted tothem in dreams. But the priest of the adytum possesses adivining power, and uses a divine afflatus. Tithroniumis about fifteen stadia distant from Amphiclea. Thistown is situated in a plain, and does not contain anythingwhich deserves to be mentioned. From Tithronium toDrym√¶a there is a distance of twenty stadia. But wherethe road which leads from Amphiclea to Drymxa jointwith that which leads from Tithronium, there are a groveand altar of Apollo, which belong to the Tithronenses.There is likewise a temple here, but it does not containany statue. On directing your course to the left hand in



this



sot THE DESCRIPTION



this part of the country, at the distance of about eightystadia from Amphiclea, you will arrive at Drym√¶a, ac≠cording to the information of Herodotus. The inhabitantsof this place were formerly called Naubolenscs; and theyfay that their city was built by Phocus the son of √Üacus.But the Drymaji have an ancient temple of Ceres Thesmo-phsros, or the legislative deity. In this temple there is astatue in an upright position j and they celebrate an an≠nual festival in honour of the goddess.



G H A P. XXXIV.



Of all the cities too in Phocis except Delphos, Elateais the greatest. This city is situated opposite to Amphiclea,and is distant from it about one hundred and eighty stadia.The greater part of this road is a plain : but near the wallsof Elat√¶a it has a gradual elevation. Through the flatpart of the road the river Cephissus slows; and the birdscalled Otides feed on its banks. The Elat√¶ans defendedthemselves against, and repelled the army of the Mace≠donians led by Cassander. They likewise fled from Taxilus,who commanded the army of Mithridates: and for thisthe Romans gave them their freedom, and suffered themto cultivate their land without paying tribute. There is adispute concerning their origin: but they assert of them≠selves, that they were formerly Arcadians. For they faythat Elatus the son of Areas, when the Phlegyans attackedDelphos, fought in defence of the god, and afterwardstook up his residence together with his forces in Phocis,and built the city Elatea. Among the cities of Phocis too



which



OF GREECE. 



which the Persians burnt, Elatea is numbered. And thiscity was afflicted with many calamities in common withthe Phocenses: the Damon likewise prepared for themprivate misfortunes through the Macedonians. But it wasthrough the means of Olympiodorus that the siege of Caf-fander and the Macedonians was rendered ineffectual.Philip, however, the son of Demetrius, having corruptedthe principal persons of the city by gifts, raised the greatestterror in the minds of the common people. But TitusFlaminius, being sent from Rome in order to give libertyto Greece, declared that he would restore the Elat√¶ansto their ancient polity, if they would only revolt from theMacedonians. However, whether it was through the stu≠pidity of the common people, or the persuasion of theirrulers, they continued faithful to Philip, and sufferedthemselves to be besieged by the Romans.



Some time after this they sustained the siege of Taxi-lus, who commanded the army of Mithridates and ofthe Barbarians from Pontus ‚Ä¢, and for this the Romansgave them their liberty. When, too, in my time the Cos-toboci, who were a band of robbers, infested Greece bytheir depredations, and penetrated as far as to Elatea,Mnesibulus, having collected a number of chosen men,made a great daughter of the Barbarians, but fell himselfin the engagement. This Mnesibulus gained other vic≠tories in the stadium, and in the two hundred and thirty-fifth Olympiad was victorious in the stadium, and in therepeated course with 'a shield. In Elatea, therefore, nearthe road in which the races are run, there is a brazenstatue of Mnesibulus. The Elateans too have a forum,which deserves to be inspected; and in ic there is a statueof Elatus on a pillar. But I am not certain, whether they



designed



o THE DESCRIPTION



designed by this to honour the builder of their city, orwhether they raised this pillar as a mark of honour over asepulchre. They have likewise a temple of √Üsculapius,in which there is a statue with a beard. The names .ofthose who made this statue are Timocles and Timarchides;and both of them derived their origin from the Atticland. In the extremity of the city, on the right hand,there are a theatre, and an ancient brazen statue ofMinerva. They fay that this goddess defended themagainst the Barbarians that fought under the commandof Taxilus. The temple too of Minerva Cran√¶a isabout twenty stadia distant from Elatea. The road tothis temple is rather steep, but its elevation cannot beperceived by those that ascend it. At the end of thisroad there is a hill, which is for the most part steep,but which is neither very bulky nor very lofty. On thetop of this hill is the temple of Minerva; and in it thereare porches, and places of habitation in the porches.Those that minister to the goddess dwell here; and theperson that presides over the sacred concerns in particulartakes up his residence in one of these habitations. Theychoose this person out of the number of beardless youths,and take care that he resigns his office before he has abeard. He performs the office of priest to the goddess forfive continued years; and during all this time he liveswith the goddess, and bathes himself in basons after theancient manner. But the statue of the goddess was madeby the sons of Polycles, and has the appearance of oneprepared for a battle. Her shield too is fashioned in imi≠tation of that among the Athenians which is called theshield of the virgin.



CHAP.



OF GREECE. J



CHAP. XXXV.



A MOUNTAINOUS road on the right hand ofElatea leads to Ab√¶ and Hyampolis. A public roadlikewise leads to the fame cities; and this is the roadwhich brings you from Orchomenos to Opus. On pro≠ceeding therefore from Orchomenos to Opus, and turninga little to the left hand, you will fee a road which leadsto Ab√¶. The inhabitants of this city fay that they cameto Phocis from Argos, and that their city was denominatedirom Abas by whom it was built. They add, that Abaswas the son of Lynceus and Hypermnestra the daughterof Danaus. The Ab√¶ans too have venerated Apollo froman early period of time, and once possessed an oracle ofthe god. But the Persians did not pay the fame venera≠tion to this divinity as the Romans did afterwards. Forthe Romans, through their piety to Apollo, suffered theAb√¶ans to use their own laws: but the army of Xerxesburnt the temple in Ab√¶. The Greeks, however, that op≠posed the Barbarians, did not think proper to rebuild thetemples of the Greeks which the Persians had burnt, thatthe ruins of them might remain as perpetual monumentsof hatred between the two nations. Hence, in the bordersof the Haliartians, many half-burnt temples yet remain;and among the Athenians in the Phaleric road there is atemple of Juno half burnt, and this is the cafe with atemple of Ceres in Phalerum. The temple in Ab√¶ ap≠pears to me to have exhibited an appearance of this"kind at that time, till in the Phocic war the Thebansfcurat those suppliants that had been vanquished in battle,



fled



to THE DESCRIPTION



fled to Ab√¶, and set on fire the temple which had beenbefore half burnt by the Persians. And hence, at presentthis temple is in the most ruinous condition of all thebuildings which have been injured by fire. For this temple,which had been injured by the Persian fire, was afterwardsinjured in a still greater degree by that of the B≈ìotians.Near this great temple there is another temple, which isnot so large: and this was dedicated by the emperorAdrian to Apollo.



The Ab√¶ans however have statues more ancient thantheir temples, and which they themselves dedicated. Althese statues are brazen, are in an erect position, and areApollo, Latona, and Diana. The Ab√¶ans too have atheatre and a forum, both which are of ancient work≠manship. But on returning into the straight road to Opus,you will arrive at Hyampolis. The name of this city in≠dicates the origin of its inhabitants, and the place fromwhich they fled to this country. For the Hyantes beingvanquished by Cadmus and his associates, fled from Thebeeinto these parts. And at first, indeed, their city wascalled by the neighbouring people the city of the Hyantes;but in process of time it came to be denominated Hyam≠polis. This city was burnt by Xerxes, and afterwards en≠tirely subverted by Philip. Yet notwithstanding this, the or≠naments of the ancient forum still remain‚Äîa Bouhuterion,or place of consultation, and a theatre not far from the gates.But the emperor Adrian built a porch here, which bears hisname. The inhabitants of this city have but one well; andthey have no other water besides this, either for bathingor drinking, except the rain water which they collect inwinter. They venerate too Diana beyond all the divini≠ties; and they have a temple of this goddess. But I am



¬£ not



OF GREECE. 



not able to describe her statue, because they only thinkproper to open the temple twice a year.



They say that such victims as are selected for Dianaare not afflicted with any disease, and grow fatter by feed≠ing than other cattle. But not only the road to Delphos,or Daulis, through Panopeus, leads from Ch√¶ronea toPhocis, and to the road which is called Scissa ; but anotherroad, which is rough, and for the most part mountainous,conducts you from Ch√¶ronea to a city of the Phocenses,which is called Stiris. The length of this road is aboutone hundred and twenty stadia. The inhabitants of thiscity fay, that they were formerly Athenians, and thatbeing expelled the Attic land, together with Peteus theson of Orneus by √Ügeus, they settled in this place. Theyadd, that the city was called Stiris, because a great partos those that followed Peteus belonged to the StirienscsBut the habitation of the Stirienses is in an elevated androcky place; and hence in summer they are in want ofwater. For they have neither many wells, nor is th¬ªwater which they afford fit to be drunk. It serves how≠ever for baths, and supplies beasts of burthen with drink.The inhabitants indeed fetch the water which they drinkfrom a fountain which is about four stadia distant fromthe town, and which is dug out of a rock. They are there≠fore obliged to descend in order to obtain this water. InStiris too there is a temple of Ceres, who is called Stiritis.This temple is raised from crude tiles; but the statue ofthe goddess is made of Pentelican stone, and has torches,in its hands. Near it there is another statue, which isancient, and adorned with fillets.



CHAP.



o THE DESCRIPTION



CHAP. XXXVI.



But from Stiris to Ambryssus there is a plain roadswhich is about sixty stadia in length. Between the moun≠tains here there is a plain : and there are many vines in theplain, and plants called hysgini. Brambles too grow herewithout intermission as well as vines. This bramble theIonians and the rest of the Greeks call coccos, ot the grainwith which scarlet it dyed: but the Gauls above Phrygiacall it in their native tongue Ut. Its magnitude is nearlythe fame with that of the white thorn, but its leaves areblacker and softer than those of the bulrush. In otherrespects, however, it resembles the bulrush. Its fruit itsimilar to that of the solanum or nightshade, and its mag≠nitude is equal to that of bitter vetches. In the fruit tooof the coccos a small animal breeds; and this animal, ifit finds a passage to the air when the fruit is ripe, imme≠diately takes wing, and exhibits the appearance of a gnat.But now before the animal can be conceived they gatherthe fruit of the coccos. The blood too of this insect is use≠ful for the purpose of dying wool. But Ambryssus is situ≠ated under mount Parnassus; and the Delphi are beyondit. They fay that the city was denominated from the heroAmbryssus. TheThebans, in the war against Philip and theMacedonians, surrounded Ambryssus with a double wall jand, in raising it, used the stone which this place aboundswith, and which is of a black colour, and very strong.The measure of the circumference of each wall is but littleIhort of two paces; but the altitude of each is about two



paces



OF GREECE. Hog



faces and a half, in that part which has not yet fallen.The interval between the two walls is about one pace*But they neglected adorning these walls with battlements,towers, and other ornaments winch are usually added towalls, because they were built merely for the purposes ofdefence. The Ambryssenses too have a forum not verylarge, and many of the stone statues which it containsare broLen. On directing your course to Anticyra, youwill find the road at first steep ; but after you have ascend-¬ªed it for about two stadia it becomes level. And on theright hand of this road there is a temple of Dictynn√¶anDiana. The Ambryssenses particularly reverence this god≠dess : and her statue is of √Üginean workmanship, and ismade of black stone.



All the road from this temple of Diana to Anticyra ison the ascent. They say that the more ancient name of thecity is Cyparissus ; and that Homer, in his catalogue of thePhocenfes, chooses rather to call this city Cyparissus thanAnticyra; for then it began to be called Anticyra. Theyadd, that Anticyreus was contemporary with Hercules.This city lies under the ruins of Medeon. In the begin≠ning too of this account of the Phocensian affairs, I have(hewn that Medeon was one of those cities that plunderedthe temple of Apollo. But the Antieyrans were drivenfrom their country by Philip the son of Amyntas. TitusFlaminius, the commander of the Roman army, subvertedtheir city a second time, because they adhered to Philipthe son of Demetrius, and king of the Macedonians. ButTitus was sent from Rome to assist the Athenians againstPhilip. The mountains which are above Anticyra are veryrocky, and particularly abound with hellebore. And theblack sort indeed is used by the inhabltans as a purgative;



Vol. III. P but



at¬Æ THE DESCRIPTION



but the other sort, which is white, purifies by acting asan emetic. The Anticyrans likewise have brazen statuesin their forum. In their haven too they have a temple ofNeptune of a moderate size, and which is built of chosenstones. The inward parts are of white plaster. The statuein this temple is of brass, is in an upright position, andstands with one of its feet on a dolphin. One of its handstoo is on its thigh, and with the other it holds a tri≠dent. They have besides two gymnasia. One of thesecontains baths; and in the other, which is at some distancefrom this, and is ancient, there is a brazen statue. Theinscription on this statue signifies, that it is the image ofthe pancratiast Xenodamus the Anticyran, who was victo≠rious over men in the Olympic games. If this inscriptiontherefore is true, it must follow, that Xenodamus receivedthe olive crown, in the two hundred and eleventh Olym≠piad, and that the Eleans have omitted to mention himalone, in their account of the victors in the games. Abovethe forum there is a fountain of water in a well: and aroof supported by pillars screens this well from the fun.A little beyond this well there is a monument raised fromsuch stones as were accidentally found. They fay that thesons of Iphitus are buried in this tomb; that one of thesereturned safe from Troy, and died in his own house; butthat the other, Schedius, fell before Troy, and that hisbones were brought hither.



CHAP,



OF GREECE.



CHAP. XXXVII. ,



On the right hand of the city, and about the distance oftwo stadia from it, thers is a lofty rock, which is a partof a mountain. On this rock there is a temple of Diana;and the statue of the goddess which it contains was madeby Praxiteles. This statue has a torch in its right hand,and a quiver depending from its shoulders; and a dogstands on its left fnle. The height too of the statue sur≠passes that of any woman. . A city likewise named Bulisborders on Phocis. This city was denominated fromBufon, -who brought a colony hither from the cities ofancient Doris. The Bulidii form a part of the conventionof Philomelus and the Phocenses. There is a distance dfeighty stadia from the B≈ìotian city Thisbe to Bulis ; butfrom Anticyra through the continent I do not know thatthere is any road; for between Anticyra and Bulis thereare mountains which arri both steep and rough. FromAnticyra to the port, a distance of one hundred stadia in≠tervenes. But from the port to Bulis, I conjecture the. foot road is about seven stadia in length. A torrent inthis part of the country falls into the sea; and the nativescall this torrent Heracleios, or Herculean. Bulis too issituated on an eminence, to such as fail from Anticyra toLich√¶um, a promontory of the Corinthians. More thanhalf the inhabitants here live by catching shell-fish for thedying of purple. But there are not any ornaments inBulis which deserve much admiration. They have how≠ever two temples, one of Diana, and the other of Bac-



P  chus j



af THE DESCRIPTION



chus; and the statues which they contain are made of



wood. Whom these were made by, I cannot by any means



conjecture.



The Bulidii denominate that god, whom they venerateabove all others, the greatest : and in my opinion, this is anappellation of Jupiter. They have likewise a fountainwhich they call Saunion. But to Cirrha, which is a havenof the Delphi, there is a road from Delphos of sixty stadiain length. When you descend into the plain, you will feea Hippodrome in which the equestrian Pythian games arecelebrated. With respect to the Taraxippos in Olympia,I have related the particulars concerning it in my accountof the Elean affairs. But in this Hippodrome of Apollo,the charioteers sometimes meet with accidents that occa≠sion sorrow, as the D√¶mon in every undertaking distri≠butes to men, sometimes prosperous, and sometimes ad≠verse events. However, in this Hippodrome there isnothing which terrifies the horses, and the origin of whichmight be referred to the anger of some hero, or to someother cause. But the plain which commences fromCirrha is entirely destitute of trees, whether they are un≠willing to plant any in it through a certain dire execration,or whether this arises from the inaptitude of the foil.They fay that this city, which is called Cirrha at present,was thus denominated from the nymph Cirrha. How≠ever, Homer in the Iliad, and in his hymn to Apollo, callsthis city by its ancient name Crissa.



But in after times, when the inhabitants of Cirrha actedin other respects impiously towards Apollo, and laid waste,the country sacred to the god, the Amphictyons thoughtproper to war on the Cirrhxans, chose for the purposeClisth¬´ne the Sicyonian tyrant for their general, and‚Ä¢ ‚Ä¢ brought



OF GREECE. 



brought Solon from Athens, that he might assist them byhis councils. On their consulting the oracle too respect≠ing the victory, the Pythian deity thus answered them:** You will not be able to subvert the tower os this city,till the waves of azure-eyed Amphitrite, sounding on theblack deep, shall warn my grove." Solon therefore per≠suaded them to consecrate the Cirrh√¶an land to Apollo,so that the grove of the god might be near the sea. Helikewise employed another stratagem against the Cirrh√¶-ans; for he turned the course of the river Plistus, whichflowed into the city. When the inhabitants too of thecity resisted their besiegers, drinking from wells, and col≠lecting rain water, Solon threw some roots of helleboreinto the Plistus; and, when he perceived that the waterwas sufficiently infected with the poison, turned the riveragain into its ancient channel. The Cinrhaeans therefore,drinking greedily of the water, were afflicted with a vio≠lent flux, and were no longer able to guard die walls. Inconsequence of this the Amphictyons took the city, andpunished the Cirrh√¶ans for their impiety to the god.Then too Cirrha became the haven of the Delphi. Thiscity likewise contains a temple of Apollo, Diana, and La-tona; and in it there are large statues of Attic workman≠ship. In the fame temple too there is a statue of Adrastla:but this is not so large as the other statues,a



CHAP. XXXVIII.



But the land of those Locrians who are called Ozolaeis next to Phocis after Cirrha. I have heard different re≠ports concerning the appellation of these Locstatis. But



P  I will



ii THE DESCRIPTION



I will relate all that I have heard. When Orestheus th.son of Deucalion reigned in this country, a bitch was de≠livered of a piece of wood, instead of a whelp. Thispiece of wood Orestheus buried in the ground ; and theyfay, that in the following spring a vine was produced,from it, and that from the wood of its branches (ozci) thepeople were called Ozo/a. Others again fay, that Nessus,who carried the wife of Hercules over the river Evenus,did not immediately die of the wound which he receivedfrom Hercules, but fled to this country j that he diedhere; and that the air became noxious from the filthyodour of his dead body. There is likewise a third report,that a foetid vapour was exhaled from the water of a cer≠tain river; and a fourth, that this country abounds withasphodel, and that the smell of it was very predominant.It is also said, that the first inhabitants of this place wereautochthones, or earth-born; and that, in consequence of theirnot having yet learnt to weave garments, they used tocover their bodies, as a defence from the cold, with therecent skins of wild beasts; at the fame time turning thehairy part of the hide outwards for the fake of ornament.And hence the smell of their bodies necessarily resembledthat of the skins. But Aniphifla is about one hundred andtwenty stadia distant from Delphos, and is the largest andmost celebrated city of the Delphi. The inhabitants pfthis city have joined themselves to the √Ütolians, in con≠sequence of being ashamed of the name of the Ozol√¶.Indeed, it is probable that Augustus C√¶sar subverted thecountry of the √Ütolians, in order to people Nicopolis, andthat he caused a great part of them to migrate to Am-phissa. However, these people originated from the Lo-prians j and their city (as they fay) was denominated from



Amphissa,



OF GREECE. 



Amphisla, the daughter of Macareus the son of √Üolus,and who was beloved by Apollo.



This city is adorned with many excellent pieces of‚ñ†workmanship; but the monuments of Amphisla and An-dr√¶rnon deserve to be mentioned beyond all the rest. Theysay that Gorge, the wise os Andrxmon, and daughter ofOeneus, is buried here with Andr√¶mon. But in the towerthere is a temple of Minerva; and in it an erect brazenstatue. They say that this statue was brought by Thoasfrom Troy, and that it belonged to the Trojan spoils.This however I cannot believe. For in the former part ofthis work, I have fliewn that the Samians, Rhcecus theson of Philaeus, and Theodorus the son of Telecles, werethe first that found out the art of casting brass. But Ihave not yet been able to find any of the works of Theo≠dorus which consist of brass. But in the temple of Ephe-fian Diana, as you approach to that cell which containscertain pictures, you will fee above the altar of Diana, whois called Protothronia, a stone inclosure. Upon this in≠closure there are other statues, and an image of a womannear its extremity. This statue was made by Rhcecus;and the Ephesians call it Night. The statue therefore ofMinerva in Amphisla is more ancient in its appearance,and the art displayed in its fabrication is less polilhed.The Amphissenses too celebrate the mysteries of theyouths who are called AnaEles. Of these gods there arcvarious opinions. For, according to some, they are theDioscuri; according to others, the Curetes; and a stillgreater number think that they are the Cabiri. TheseLocrians too have other cities. Thus, above Amphissa, andtowards the continent, is the city Myonia. This city is



P distant



aio" THE DESCRIPTION



distant from Amphissa thirty stadia, and the Inhabitant*dedicated a shield to Jupiter in Olympia. It is likewisesituated in a lofty place, and contains a grove and altar ofthe gods called Meilicbioi, or the mild. To these divini≠ties they perform nocturnal sacrifices: and they consumethe flesh os the victims in the place where they^ sacrificebefore the fun rises. Above the city too there is a groveof Neptune; and this they call Poseidonion. In it there isa temple of Neptune ; but it has not at present any statue.These people therefore dwell above Amphissa.



But Oeanthea borders on the sea, and in the neighbour≠hood of this city is Naupactus. All the other Locriancities too, except Amphissa, are in subjection to the Pa-trenses, who were invested with this authority by the em≠peror Augustus. In this city Oeanthea there is a templeof Venus j and a little above the city there is a grove ofcypress and pine-trees. In this grove there are a templeand statue of Diana. But the paintings on the walls areobliterated by time, so that not one of them remains forinspection. I conjecture, that the city was denominatedfrom a woman or a nymph. For as to what pertains toNaupactus, I know it is reported, that the Dorienses, to≠gether with the sons of Aristomachus, built a sleet in thisplace for the purpose of sailing to Peloponnesus; and thatfrom this circumstance the city was denominated. Withrespect to the Naupactians, how the Athenians gave the.Meslenians, who took up their residence inlthome, whenSparta was shaken by an earthquake, Naupactus to in≠habit, which they had taken from the Locrians ; and how,after the slaughter of the Athenians at √Ügospotamos, theJjaccdxmonians expelled the Messenians from Naupactus



‚Äî-these



OF GREECE. 



‚Äîthese particulars I have copiously related in my accountof the Messenian affairs. The Messenians, therefore,being obliged to leave Naupactus, the Locrians again tookpossession of it.



As to the verses which the Greeks call Naupactia, theyare commonly attributed to a Milesian; but Charon theson of Pytheus fays that they were composed by theNaupactian Carcinus: and this is our opinion on the sub≠ject. For how can it be reasonable to suppose, that versesupon women, composed by a Milesian, should be calledNaupactian? But in Naupactus there is near the sea atemple of Neptune; and in the temple there is an erectstatue of brass. There is likewise a temple of Diana,which contains a statue of white stone, in the attitude ofdischarging an arrow. They denominate the goddess√Ütola. Venus too is honoured in a cavern: and theypray to this goddess on other occasions; but widows inparticular request of her, that they may be again mar≠ried. As to the temple of √Üsculapius, it is nothing butruins. But at first it was built by a private man, whosename was Phalysius. For it happened, that when his eyeswere so diseased that he was almost blind, the god who isworshipped in Epidaurus sent to him Anyte, a woman re≠nowned for composing verses, with a letter. Anytedreamt that (he received this letter, but, when she awoke,found it in her hands sealed. She therefore sailed to Nau≠pactus, and ordered Phalysius to break the seal, and readits contents. And at first, indeed, he thought it was notpossible for him to read the letter, as his eyes were insuch a diseased condition; but hoping that it might be



the



Si DESCRIPTION OF GREECE.



the means of procuring him some assistance from √Üscu≠lapius, he at length opened it, was immediately cured ofhis malady, and gave Anyte two thousand pieces of gold,calledJlateres, which was the sum specified in the letter.



, NOTES



NOTES



ON THE



FIRST VOLUME.



rage . And Jupiter is seen holding a sceptre, and vifiory.]Jupiter is every where called by Homer as well as Orpheus,"the father of gods and men, ruler and ling, and the supreme osrulers, ¬´mlo¬ª xp¬´o¬ª!i¬ª." On account therefore of his commandingor ruling characteristic, he is very properly represented with asceptre, which is certainly an obvious symbol of command. Thesymbol of victory likewise justly belongs to him, on account ofhis all-subduing power, which vanquishes all mundane opposi≠tion, and causes the war of th,c universe to terminate in peace.Proclu on the Cratylus informs us, that his sceptre according toOrpheus was twenty-four measures in length, by which, fays he,the theologist signifies his establishing those two divine orders,the celestial and supercelestial, and his reigning over two series ofgods, each of which is characterised by the number twelve, yapitrlotf upipuri Jiaxeff-fiov;, tovT! ov^cuuo-j, kJ to¬ª wireporgaue*. eSin aulou uiTo tnar/itToor urai tyna.v o io?iO>c$ viax'pa;* xa* Sixoa-i fifyw, aij o*tv fl^-j^mIc? SvolixxSu,. I only add farther at present, that Jupiter, ac≠cording to his first subsisterce, is the Demiurgus or artificer ofthe world, and thai he is received from thence into all the follow≠ing orders of gods. Hence, there are various Jupiters whopreside over the different parts of the universe, and all of whomare suspended from the first Jupiter the Demiurgus, so as to formvarious links of that divine chain, which, on aecount of itsfticorrftpliblc nature, is beautifully called by Homer a golden chain.



The



tto NOTES ON THE



The same must be understood of every other divinity, consideredaccording to his highest subsistence j viz. that various other divi≠nities of the fame characteristic proceed from him into the part*of the world: and if the reader carefully attends to this theory,when he reads Homer, or the fables of any other ancient theolo≠gical poet, and is able to apply it properly, he will find that thetheology of the ancients is founded in a theory no less beautifullyconnected than astonishingly profound ; no less enchanting thanscientific; no less true than marvellous and mystic. See moreconcerning this most important subject, in my Note* on the Cra-tylus, and Introduction to the Parmenides of Plato; in myTranslation of Sallust on the Gods and the World; and of theEmperor Julian's Oration to the Sun, and to the Mother of theCods.



Page . Thegoddejses calledGcnetyllides.] The Scholiast uponAristophanes informs us that Genetyllis is an epithet of yeans,and that she is so called because she presides over the generationof animals. Perhaps therefore, as there are two Venuses, as weshall fee hereafter, the Genetyllides are these two.



Page . And of Iacchus holding a torch. ] There is great pro≠priety in representing Iacchus or Bacchus with a torch; forBacchus is the mundane intelkH; and fire with the ancients wasvery properly considered as a symbol of inttllcH, from its tendingupwards.



Page .‚Äîand this Bacchus they call Melpomenos.] The Orphictheologists,asIhaveshcwn inp.iot of the Dissertation prefixed tomy Translation of Orphcus's Hymns, called the intellect of eachof the celestial spheres, by some one of the appellations of Bacchus,and the foul, or animating part of the sphere, by the name ofone of the Muses. Agreeably to this, in the orb of the fun, theycalled the intelleHive part, Trictcricus Bacchus, and the animatingpart Melpomene. But as the intellect and foul of the fun, and soof every other orb, form one divine nature, from their admirableunion with each other, the intellect of this sphere may be justly



called



FIRST VOLUME. tit



Called Melpomenos: and it would be by no means improper tocall the animating part Trieteric.



Page . They report indeed, that the father of Erichthoniut, ¬£^f.]The fables of the ancients are, in their secret meaning, utilityand construction, the most beautiful and admirable pieces of com≠position which the mind of man is capable of framing, thoughnothing has been so little understood, or so shamefully abused.Of the truth of this observation, the reader whose mind hasbeen enlightened by true science will be fully convinced by thefollowing explanation drawn from ancient sources of the fablealluded to by Paufanias in this part. Previous to which it willbe proper to observe, that the first cause, according to the Pytha≠gorean and Platonic philosophers, on account of his transcendentsimplicity, was called the one, this name being adapted the best ofall others to a nature truly ineffable and unknown. But it isimpossible that such a nature could produce this visible worldwithout mediums, since, if this had been the cafe, all things musthave been like himself, natures ineffable and unknown. It is^neecstary, therefore, that there should be certain mighty powersbetween the first cause and us : for we in reality are nothing morethan the dregs of the universe. These mighty powers, from theirsurpassing similitude to the first god, were very properly calledby the ancients gods; and- were considered by them as perpe≠tually subsisting in the most admirable and profound union with .each other, and the first cause; yet so, as amidst this union topreserve their own essence distinct from that of the highest god.Hence, as Froclus beautifully observes, they may be compared totrees rooted in the earth : for as these, by their roots, are unitedwith the earth, and become earthly in an eminent degree Avith*.out being eatth itself; so the gods by their summits are pro≠foundly united to the first cause, and by this means are transcen≠dency similar to without being the first cause.



But these mighty powers are called by the poets a golden chain,on account of their connection with each other, and incorrup≠tible



S NOTES ON THE



tible nature. Now the first of these powers you may call InteUleclual; the second ‚Ä¢vivtsic ; the third Paonian, and so on, whichthe ancients, desiring to signify to us by names, have symbolicallydenominated. Henpe, says Olympiodorus in MS. Comment,in Gorgiam, we ought not to be disturbed on hearing suchnames as a Saturnian power, the power Jupiter, and such-like,but explore the things to which they allude. Thus for instance*by a Saturnian power rooted in the first cause, understand a pureintellect : for Kgoto; or Saturn is xogo; i. e.  xaSafOf, or, a pureintellect. Hence, fays Olympiodorus, we call those that are pureand virgins, xogai. He adds, On this account poets * fay, thatSaturn devoured his children, and afterwards, again sent theminto the light, because intellect is converted to itself, seeks itself,and is itself sought: but he again refunds them, because intel≠lect not only seeks, and procreates, but produces into light audprofits. On this account, too, he is called a/xvXop¬´Ti{, orinfleSed counsel, because an inflected figure verges to itself.Again, as there is nothing disordered and novel in intellect,they represent Saturn as an old man, and as flow in his motion:and hence it is that astrologers fay, that such as have Saturnwell situated in their nativity are prudent and endued withintellect.



Again, the ancient theologists called life by the name of Ju≠piter, to whom they gave a two-fold appellation J** and <r,m,signifying by these names, that he gives life through himself.Farther still they aflert that the Sun is drawn by four horses, andthat he is perpetually young, signifying by this his power, whichis motive of the whole of nature subject to his dominion, hisfourfold conversions, and the vigour of his energies. But theyfay that the Moon is drawn by two bulls : by two, on account ofher increase and diminution; but by bulls, because as these tillthe ground, so the Moon governs all those parts which surroundthe earth-



* This is asserted by Hcsiod in his Thcogony.



Th¬ª



FIRST VOLUME. 



This being premised, as a specimen of the manner in whichfables are to be understood, let us consider the meaning of thatto which Pausaniasalludes. According to the fable, then, Vulcanfalling in love with Minerva, emitted his feed on the earth, andfrom hence sprang the race of the Athenians. ‚ñ† By Vulcan,therefore, we must understand that divine power which presidesover the spermatic and physical reasons which the universe con≠tains: for whatever Nature accomplishes by verging towardsbodies, the fame Vulcan performs in a divine and exempt manner,by moving Nature, and using her as an instrument in his ownproper fabrication : for natural heat has a Vulcanian characteristic,and was produced by Vulcan for the purpose of fabricating a cor≠poreal nature. Vulcan, therefore, is that power which perpe≠tually presides over the fluctuating nature of bodies: and hence,fays Olympiodorus, he operates with bellows (iifvrai;), whichoccultly signifies his operating in natures (avli nv ntatf fiwicn).But by earth we must understand matter, which was thus symboli≠cally denominated by the ancients, as we learn from Porphyry deAntr. Nymph. By Minerva we must understand the summit xopvpnof all those intellectual natures that reside in Jupiter, the artificerof the world: or, in other words, (he is that deity which illuminatesall mundane natures with intelligence. The Athenians therefore,who are fouls of a Minerval characteristic, may be very properlysaid to be the progeny of Vulcan and the Earth, because Vulcan,who perpetually imitates the intellectual energy of Minerva in hisfabrication of the sensible universe, imparts to them through thisimitation those -vehicles, and those spermatic reasons through which,in conjunction with matter, they become inhabitants of this ter≠restrial abode. And thus much for the fable alluded to by Pau≠sanias. For farther information on the most interesting subjectsdiscussed in this note, fee my tranflation of the Cratylus, Ph√¶do,Parmenides and Tim√¶us of Plato; my Dissertation on the Eleu-siuian and Bacchic Myiteiies; my Translation of Sallust on the



Godst



ei NOTES ON THE



Gods and the World ; and of the Emperor Julian's Oration tot



the Sun, and to the Mother of the Gods.



Page . Apollo, whom they denominate Alexicaeus!\ Apollois Alexkacus, or the disperser of evil, through the divinity Paan,whom he contains in his essence, as is evident from the followinglines in the beautiful hymn of Proclus to the Sun s



x. e.



 From thy bland dance, reft/lhg dtsjly ill,alubrious P√¶an blossoms into light.Health far diffusing, and th'extended worldWith streams of harmony innoxious fills."



Page . The daughters of the Sun are said to have bemailtdthe misfortune of their brother Phaeton."] The following explana≠tion is given by the Platonic philosophy of the well known fableof Phaeton. Phaeton signifies a comet, by which considerableparts of the earth are at times destroyed. But he is said to be theoffspring of the Sun, because a comet, according to the Pla-tonistt, is a sublunary body, confiding of a collection of dry va≠pours, raised and set on fire by the Sun. He is likewise said tohave desired the government of the chariot of the Sun, because acomet desires to imitate the circular motion of the Sun. Hedid not keep the track observed by his parent, because a cometdoes not move in a direction parallel to that of the Sun. Hewas blasted by thunder through the anger of Jupiter, becausethis comet was extinguished by moist vapours. On this accounthe is said to have fallen into the river Eridanus, because the cometwas extinguished, through moisture. He was lamented by theHeliades, because the vapour proceeding from the dissolution of



 the



First volume.- h$



the comet flowed downwards, being of a watry nature, and inthis respect corresponding to tears. The Heliades were changedinto poplar trees, because a juice distills from the poplar treesimilar to amber; and amber has a golden splendour; and goldis dedicated to the Sun. The fable therefore obscurely signifiesthat the juice of the poplar tree is produced from moisture simi≠lar to that which was produced by the dissolution of the comet.



Page . It is related by Herodotus] Herodotus in Terpsich."|informs us, that it was Clisthenes the Athenian, of the family ofthe Alcm√¶onid√¶, who divided the four Athenian tribes intoten.



Page . And tool care that globular vessels, (sfc."] Many ofthe present day are of opinion, that'the (hips of the ancienta‚Ä¢were of a very inconsiderable size, though a small degree of re≠flection must convince every unprejudiced mind, that (hips whichcontained many banks of rowers, and great quantities of armedmen, must have been very large vessels. But the following ac≠count of a Ihip constructed by Ptolemy Philopater, from Plutarchin his Life of that great commander Demetrius, abundantly provesthe truth of what I have advanced. "Before the time of De≠metrius, fays he, there had not been seen a galley with Jiftten orJixteen banks of oart. But after Demetrius, Ptolemy Philopaterbuilt a prodigious galley of eighty banks of oars. It was twohundred and eighty cubits in length. Its height from the waterto the top of the stern was forty-eight cubits. It had fourhundred mariners, and four thousand rowers: and besides all this,there was convenient standing for nearly three thousand soldiersto fight above the decks." It is true that Plutarch adds, thisunwitldy hulk was ¬´nly fit for mew, and not for service; but itassords a very convincing proof, that the ancients had concep≠tions of framing much larger (hips than any of the present time;and it appears to me, that the sixteen-oared gallep of Demetrius,mentioned by Plutarch, must have been at least as large as ourfirst rate men of war. The reader may fee a large and very en-



Vol. III. Q tertaining



 NOTES ON THE



tertaining description os this (hip, though widely different msome particulars from the above account, in Athen√¶us, lib. .cap. c.



Page . But the truth of this is confirmed by Homer, &c.~\ Itis not however the Epirots that Homer alludes to, by a peopleunacquainted with the sea, and who knew not the use of salt: ‚Ä¢but as, in the person of Ulysses, Homer has beautifully representedto us the image of one who passes in a regular manner from a sen≠sible to an intellectual life, he very properly describes him, afterhaving braved the storms of the ocean, or the dangers and diificul-‚Ä¢ ties attending a life subordinate to that of intellect, as destinedto arrive among a people to whom the sea was unknown, or, inother words, to live a life wholly intellectual and divine. As Pau-sanias therefore was pious, but without philosophy, he could nothave any conception of the concealed philosophical meaning ofHomer in the fable of Ulysses. Sec more concerning this, in mytranslation of, and notes to, Porphyry's Cave of the Nymphs,in vol. ii. of Proclus on Euclid.



- Page  . Pyrrhus received a -wound in his hcad.~\ It appears fromLivy, . . c. . and Plutarch in Pyrrho, that Pyrrhus was (lainin this manner, as a just punishment for his impiety in plunder≠ing the treasuries of the temple of Proserpine.



Page . It was my intention, indeed, &c.~] It is a circum≠stance remarkably singular, that the Pythagorean philosopherNumenius was, as well as Pausanias, deterred by a dream fromdisclosing the Eleusmian mysteries. Before the extinction of thegehuine religion of mankind, indeed, and the introduction ofgigantic imfi.ly, it must have been highly improper to unfoldthese mysteries to all men: but when delusive faith succeeded toscientific theology, and divine mystery was no more, it then becamenecessary to reveal this most holy and august institution. Thi¬ªappears to have been done by the latter Platonists: and fromsome important passages which fortunately yet remain in themanuscript Commentaries of these great men on Plate, I have-



been



 



FIRST VOLUME. 



been enabled to unfold the leading particulars of this interestingaffair. These particulars the reader may find in my Dissertationon the Elcustnian and Bacchic Myjleries.



Page . Near this is the temple of Celejlial Venus,,] The Celes≠tial Venus (for there are two Venufes, as is well known) is thatdivine power which collects together the different genera ofthings, according to one desire of beauty. She is therefore veryproperly said to derive her subsistence from the prolific power ofHeaven: for Heaven, as I have (hewn in my notes on the Craty-lus, composes that order of gods which is called by the ChaldseartTheologists rouTo; voijoc, i. e. intelligible and at the fame timcintcl-leftual; which corresponds to intelligence; and is wholly of acontaining and conn :ive nature. "But the second Venus, faysProclus (in Schol. MSS. in Cratylum), Jupiter produces from,his own generative powers, in conjunction with Dione: and thisgoddess likewise proceeds from foam, after the fame mannerwith the more ancient Venus, as Orpheus evinces. But thesegoddesses differ from each other, according to the causes of theirproduction, their orders and their powers. For she that pro≠ceeds from the genitals of Heaven is supermundane, leads up≠wards to intelligible beauty, is the supplier of an unpolluted'life, and separates from generation. But the Venus that pro≠ceeds from Dione governs all the co-ordinations in the celestialworld and the earth, binds them to each other, and perfects theirgenerative progressions, through a kindred conjunction. These .divinities too are united with each other, through a similitude ofsubsistence: for they both proceed from generative powers; onefrom that of the containing power of Heaven, and the otherfrom that of Jupiter the artificer of the world." He adds,"that by the sea we must understand an expanded and circum≠scribed life; by its profundity, the universally-extended progres≠sion of such a life; and by the foam, the greatest purity ofnatute, that which is full of prolific light and power, that whichswims upon all life, and is as it were its highest flower."



Qj." It



¬´



S NOTES ON THE



It is remarkable that, according to the first of these passages,the second Venus was produced from foam in the fame manneras the first, as Proclus proves from the authority of the Orphicwritings: for this information is not to be gathered from anyother writer that  am acquainted with. Nor need it seemstrange, that this should be mentioned by no ancient authorprior to Proclus: for before the establishment of the Christianreligion, the Orphic writings were deservedly held in such greatveneration, from containing the ceremonies of a mode of wor≠ship coeval with the universe, that the less mystic parts of themwere but seldom cited, and the most mystic, not at all. As Pro≠clus, therefore, was the man that unfolded the theology and phi≠losophy of the Greeks in the most consummate perfection, andthis at a period when the ancient religion was almost entirelyextirpated, and the Orphic writings were considered as sacred butby a few, we cannot wonder at meeting with this, and muchsimilar information in the works of this incomparable man.



Page . They assert that he <was once bound by Pluto, &c."]It appears to me, that the great confusion and absurdity withwhich modern explanations of the fables of the ancients are re≠plete, may be ascribed to the two following causes: the wantof ability to distinguish in the same person, history from fable;and ignorance of the secret meaning of ancient fable. Thus, inthe present instance, most of the moderns would, I am persuaded,consider this story about Theseus, as at bottom merely historical,though it is in fact one of those ancient fables which are repletewith the most philosophical and mystic information. At present,indeed, it does not seem to be even suspected by any one, thatthe theology of the Greeks, when viewed in its genuine purity,is a thing the most sublime and scientific that the mind of maacan possibly devise; and that consequently, as the Grecian fablesare the progeny of this theology, they cannot fail of being re≠markably scientific and sublime. That the reader therefore,whose mental eye is not so darkened by oblivion, as to exclude



all



FIRST VOLUME. 



all possibility of recovering the use of it, in the present life,may be convinced of the truth of the preceding observations, lethim attend to the following information derived from the phi≠losophy of Pythagoras and Plato.



There are three orders of fouls which are the perpetual at≠tendants of the gods. The first of these orders angels compose;the second, d√¶mons; and the third, heroes. But as there is novacuum either in incorporeal or corporeal natur.-s, but on thecontrary profound union, it is necessary, in order to accomplishthis, that the last link of a superior order should coalesce with thesummit of one proximately inferior. Hence therefore, betweenessential heroes, who perpetually attend the gods, and are con≠sequently impassive and pure, nnd the bulk of human souls whodescend with pasfivity and impurity, it is necessary there shouldbe an order of human souls, who descend with impassivity andpurity. These souls were called by the ancients with great pro≠priety Heroes, on account of their high degree of proximity andalliance to such as are essentially Heroes. Hercules, Theseus, Py≠thagoras, Plato, &c. were fouls of this kind, who descended intogeneration both to benefit other souls, and in compliance withthat necessity by which all natures inferior to the perpetual at≠tendants of the gods are at times obliged to descend. The cha≠racteristics of these heroic souls are, grandeur of action, elevation,and magnificence: and Plato in his Laws fays, that we ought toVenerate them, and perform funera! sacrifices in honour of theirmemory. They are too of an undefiled nature when comparedwith other human fouls, than whom they are likewise far moreintellectual. They have much of an elevated nature, and whichis properly liberated from an inclination to matter. Hence theyare easily led back to the intelligible world, in which they livefor many periods; while, on the contrary, the most irrational kindof fouls are either never led back, or this is accomplished withgreat difficulty, or continues for a very inconsiderable period oftime,



(^ - But



¬´ NOTES ON THE



But as every gad beginning from on high produces his pro≠per series as far as to the last of things, and this series compre≠hends many essences different from each other, such as Angelical,D√¶moniacal, Heroical, Nymphical, and the like, the lowest pow≠ers of these orders have a great communion and physical sym≠pathy with the human race, end contribute to the perfection ofall their natural operations, and particularly to their procreations.As these heroic souls too have a two-fold form of life, viz. epi-nionative and cogitative, the former of which is called by Plato inthe Tim√¶us the circle of difference, and the latter, the circle ofsameness, and which are characterised by the properties of male andfemale ;-*-hence these souls at one time exhibit a deiform power,by energizing according to the masculine prerogative of their na≠ture, or the circle of sameness, and at another time according totheir feminine prerogative, or the circle of difference; ytt so,as that according to both these energies they act with rectitude,and without merging themselves in the darkness of body. Theylikewise know the natures prior to their own, and exercise a pro≠vidential care over inferior concerns, without at the fame timehaving that propensity to such concerns which is found in thebulk of mankind. But the fouls which act erroneously accordingto the energies of both these circles, or which, in other words,neither exhibit accurate specimens of practical or intellectualvirtue‚Äîthese differ in no respect from gregarious souls, or theherd of mankind, with whom the circle of sameness is fettered,and the circle of difference sustains all-various fractures anddistortions.



As it is impossible, therefore, that these heroic souls can actwith equal vigour and perfection, according to both these circlesat once, at this is the province of natures more divine than the(human, it is necessary that they must sometimes descend andenergize principally according to their opinionative part, andsometimes according to their more intellectual part. Hence, oneof these circles must energize naturally, and the other be hinder≠ed



FIRST VOLUME. $t



ed from its proper energy, On this account Heroes are calledijjxiSioi Demigods, as having only one of their circles illuminatedby the gods. Such of these, therefore, as have the circle oflameness unfettered, as are roused to an elevated life, and aremoved about it, according to a deific energy‚Äîthese are saidto have a god for their father, and a mortal for their mother,through a defect with respect to the opinionative form of life.But such, on the contrary, as energize without impediment ac≠cording to the circle of difference, who act with becoming-rectitude in practical affairs, and at the fame time cntlntsia/licallytor, in other words, under the inspiring influence of divinity‚Äîthese are said to have a mortal for their father, and a goddess fortheir mother. And in stiort, rectitude of energy in each of thesecircles is to be ascribed to a divine cause, which illuminates,invigorates and excites them in the mod unrestrained and im-paiTive manner, without destroying freedom of energy, in thecircles themselves, or causing any partial affection, sympathy ortendency in illuminating deity. When the circle of sameness,therefore, has dominion, the divine cause of illumination is (aidto be masculine and paternal; but when the circle of differencepredominates, it is said to be maternal. Hence Achilles actwith rectitude in practical affairs, and at the fame time exhibitsspecimens of magnificent, vehement, and divinely-inspired ener≠gy, as being the son of a goddess. And inch is his attachmentto practical virtue, that even when in Hades, Homer representshim as desiring a union with body, that he may aflist his father.While on the contrary Minos and Rhadamanthus, who wereheroes illuminated by Jupiter, raised themselves from generationto true being, and meddled with mortal conctrns no farther dunabsolute necessity required.



Theseus therefore, who as well as Hercules was a hero, whoenergized principally aicording to an intellec ual life, uid v\ owas a lover of both intelligible and feasible heatiiv, may be saci liave been bound by Pluto, while he was united with body, be-



i



¬´ NOTES ON THE



cause every thing sublunary is under the dominion of this god}and to have been liberated by Hercules, because through hisassistance he was led from a sensible to an intellectual life, whichhas the fame relation to a corporeal life, as the light of day tothe darkness of night.



Page . But it appears to me, that Homer, We should



rather say that Homer derived his knowledge respecting the soulsin Hades, and the names of the infernal rivers which it contains,from the mystic traditions of Orpheus, who instituted the religionof Greece, and that the rivers called Acheron and Cocytus inCichyrus were denominated from their similitude to those of thesame name in Hades. But the reader must not suppose that theinfernal rivers described by Homer are nothing more than theparadoxical sports of poetical fancy; but, as Proclus on Plato'sRepublic beautifully observes, it is proper to believe, that forthose who require chastisement and purification, subterraneanplaces are prepared, which, from their receiving the various de-fluxions of the elements above the earth, are called rivers by my-thologists, and are filled with d√¶mons who preside over fouls,and who are of an avenging, punishing, purifying, and, judicialcharacteristic Hence, says he, the poetry of Homer is not to becondemned, when it calls the infernal region a place



"Horrid and dark, and odious to the gods."



For the variety and imagination of the presiding d√¶mons exciteall this obscurity and horror. I only add, that Acheron is a placeadapted to the purgation of care and sorrow, and which als¬´ cor≠responds to air and the meridional part of the world; but thatCocytus together with Styx correspond to earth and thewestern centre, and punish hatred, through lamentations and,grief. See more on this subject, in my Introduction to the Ph√¶-do of Plato.



Page . Olett.~] Olen was a Lyclan poet, and composedhymns in honour of Apollo at Delos.



FIRST VOLUME. *j



-



Page . That Ccicjlid! Venus ts the eldest of those divinities whoare called the Parca.~\ We have already observed, that there arctwo Venuses, one supermundane, the other mundane. The first ofthese is the Celestial Venus mentioned in this place by Paufanias,as the eldest of the Parc√¶, though according to the Orphic hymnto this goddess, and which I have no doubt is the truth, she isthe ruler of the Fates: for the Hymn fays ¬´u tfastut tjktuwv f*oi¬£iur,"thou governs/I the three Fates."



Page  . And the temple of Diana the huntress.'} The sphereof the Moon is, as is well known, attributed to the goddessDiana: and this divinity, as we are informed by Proclus inTim. p. , "is the cause of nature to mortals, as she is thefelf-confpicuous image of fontal Nature.'* Sitam fut am¬´ toitJ>T)o>; T); (pvtrWi, to avroiBat ayahyta tfiaa Tut amyoiof fvnuf. Asthe Moon therefore is the cause of the existence of all na≠tural life, so likewise of its dissolution: for the natural life whichshe imparts to all animals and plants, brings with it a limitedduration, and, when the period of its existence is accomplished,returns to this divinity as its fountain. Hence Diana is veryproperly represented as a huntress: for through certain unappa-rent powers resident in the rays of the Moon, of which arrowsare an image, she takes away, or, in other words, receives backagain, the natural life which (he gave.



Page . Bacchus leading Vulcan bad to heaven."] The meaningof this beautiful fable appears to me to be as follows: Vulcan,as we have already observed, is that divine power which presidesover the spermatic and physical reasons of the universe; or, inother woids, which by using nature as an instrument, producesall the bodies which the universe contains. Juno is the inspec-tive guardian of all motion and progression. Hence she is said tohave hurled Vulcan from heaven, because the is the cause of Vul≠can's prolific progression to the extremity of things, and of hisbeing every where present with his productions in the most un≠restrained manner‚Äî-in a manner, by which this progression, con≠tinually







 NOTES ON THE



tinually suspended from its proper principle, pervades throughevery order. But the golden throne which Vulcan fends toJuno, is that vehicle depending on the goddess, and from illu≠minating which she has a mundane establishment: and the un-apparent bonds which it contains are those -vital connectives bywhich foul becomes united with body. These bonds are said t¬ªbe fixed in the throne by Vulcan, because this deity is superiorto Juno, considered according to her mundane establishment. Allthe gods except Bacchus were unable to persuade Vulcan to freeJuno from her bonds; because Bacchus, or the mundane intellect,is the monad or proximately exempt producing cause of theultimate progressions of all the gods; and hence Vulcan, consi≠dered according to his last procession, is suspended from Bacchus,by whom at the fame time he is converted on high. HenceBacchus is said to have led him back to heaven: but it is added,by means of intoxication; i. e. by deific intelligence, throughwhich every inferior deity is converted to deities of a superiorcharacteristic, and all the gods become absorbed in the ineffableprinciple of all things. Lastly, by Vulcan freeing Juno from herbonds, nothing more is meant than, that this goddess accordingto her mundane establishment receives a power from Vulcan,through which while (he illuminates with a divine light her de≠pending vehicle, flic is at the fame time exempt from all inclinationand passive affection towards the subject of her illuminations: andthe fame reasoning must be applied to every mundane divinity.



Page . Gave that oracle concerning lhe lladtscr.~\ Thisoracle is preserved by Plutarch in his life of Theseus, and is thus,except in the last line, translated by Langhorn:



From royal stems thy honour, Theseus, springs,



By Jove bclov'd, the sire supreme of kings.



See rising towns, fee wide-extended states,



On thee dependent, alk their future, fates!



Hence, hence with fear' Thy f.ivoui'd bark lhall ride,



Safe, like a bladder, ¬ª'cr the foamy tide.



Page



FIRST VOLUME. S



Page . Ar.d that Bacchus himself appeared as their leader.^The following Ptatonic dogma, which belongs to the greatestarcana of ancient Wisdom, solves all that appears to be so absurdend ridiculous to the atheistical and superficial in such-like histo≠rical relations as the present. Every deity beginning from onhigh, produces his own proper series to the last of things; andthis series comprehends in itself mary essences differing from eachOther. Thus, for instance, the Sun produces Angelical, De≠moniacal, Heroical, Nymphical, Panical, and such-like powers, eachof which subsists according to a solar characteristic: and the famereasoning must be applied to every other divinity. All thesepowers are the perpetual attendants of the Gcds, but they havenot all of them an essence wholly superior to man. For asteressential Heroes an order of souls follows, who proximately go≠vern the affairs of men, and are dxmoniacal xxra axMli accordingto habitude or alliance, but not essentially. Of this kind are theNymphs that sympathize with waters, Pans with the feet ofgoats, and the like: and they d'sser from those powers that arcessentially of a d√¶moniacal characteristic, in this, that they assumea variety of shapes (each of the others immutably preseiving oneform), are subject to various passions, and are the causes of all-various deception to mankind. Proclus in Schol. MSS. in Cra-tylum observes, that the Minerva which so often appeared toUlysses and Tclemachus was of this latter kind, on xai ir*si(Tfayoo-xtXti;, xcu aSwaix&t ^v^ai ^n[xa<rt Troiw^fi*; p^w/Aiyai, xat



not Tu TiXipaxu i. e. *' There are Pans with the feet of



goats, and Minerval fouls assuming a variety of shapes, and prox≠imately governing mankind; such as wa the Minerva that ap≠peared to Ulysses and Tclemachus," The Bacchus therefore,that appeared to the Laced√¶monians in the war mentioned byPausanias, must be considered as belonging to one of the orders¬©f those powers we have just enumerated,



Page



 NOTES ON THE



/



Page . ^Theseus, when he departed to flay the Minotaur"] Theexplanation given by the moderns of the Minotaur, and the otherparts of the fable to which it belongs, is as absurd and foreignfrom the truth, as any of their solutions of ancient fables. "Ishall make it appear (fays the Abbe Banier* with all the lav/'less levity of a Frenchman, and in the true spirit of a Catholicdivine) that the Minotaur, with Pafipbac, and the rest of thatfable, contain nothing but an intrigue of the queen os Cretewith a captain named Taurus; ;. d the :-rtiLi.c of D√¶dalus onlya fly confident." And in this impudent manner he explainsthe most celebrated lables of antiquity. It is true indeed, thatmy own countrymen are at present unacquainted with the divinewisdom of the ancients; but I do not know of any English writerthat has attempted to explain the Grecian fables in a mani er soimpertinenti trifl'ng, and absurd. Surely every thinking mindmust unite with me in acknowledging, that if the ancients intend≠ed to conceal in their fables nothing more than what Banier pre≠sents us with, their fables are far more puerile than the riddlescomposed by the ingenious Mr. Newbery for children. LordBacon, though far from penetrating the profound meaning ofthe ancients in these fables, saw enough to be convinced that theywere replete with the highest wisdom of which he had any con≠ception; and has done all in attempting to unfold them thatgreat genius without the assistance ot genuine philosophy is able toeffect, But the most piercing sagacity, the most brilliant wit, andthe most exquisite subtilty of thought, without this assistance, arehere of no avail.



It is indeed easy for ingenious men to give an explanation ofan ancient fable, which to the superficial observer shall appear tobe the precise meaning which its inventor designed to convey,though it be in reality very far from the truth. This may beeasily accounted for by considering, that all fables are images of* Vol. i. of the translation of his Mythology, p. .



truth?,



 



FIRST VOLUME. 



truths, but those of the ancients, of truths with which but few‚ñ†re acquainted. Hence, like pictures of unknown persons, theybecome the subjects of endless conjecture and absurd opinion,from the similitude which every one fancies he discovers in themto objects with which he has been for a long time familiar. Hewho understands the explanations given by the Platonic philoso≠phers of these fables will subscribe to the truth of this obser≠vation, as it is impossible that these interpretations could sowonderfully harmonize with the external or apparent meaning ofthe fables, without being the true explanations of their latentfense. But to return to the fable in question. Olympiodorusin his MS. Commentary on the Gorgias of Plato, beautifullyunfolds most of it as follows: "The Minotaur signifies the savagepassions which our nature contains. The thread which Ariadnegave toTheseus, a certain divine power conjoined with our nature.And the labyrinth, the obliquity and abundant variety of life.Theseus therefore, being one of the most excellent characters,vanquished this impediment, and freed others together with him≠self."  (it* yaq f¬´w!au{{ rot a >)/¬´¬ª SnfuuJt) iruSv <r¬ª/*ai>n. o f¬´ /n/loj,Snout ti¬ª¬´ iu¬ªafiiy i¬£i){T))(ie¬ª)!¬ª, o Si ^a^Jllro{ to cxoMkov x¬´i iro\v



Page . For there it nothing extant of Museus, &c.~\ Unfor≠tunately, at present, not one of the works of the ancient Mus√¶usis extant: for it is well known to all the learned, that the littlepoem entitled, The Loves of Hero and Leander was composedby a grammarian of a much later age than that of Mus√¶us.



Page . Hygia, who they report is the daughter of √Üsculapius.]Hygia, or Health, in the Orphic hymn to √Üsculapius, is calledthe wife of √Üsculapius. But this is by no means discordantwith what Pausanias asserts: for a communion of energies amongdivine natures was called by ancient theologists hjoj ap.cc, ora sacred marriage. Hence, Health, considered as proceeding



from



 NOTES ON THE



from √Üsculapius, may be called his daughter, and, as communi≠cating with him in divine energies, his wife.



Page . When Bacchus Jirjl came into Atlica.~\ The readermust, be careful to remember, that the Bacchus here mentionedwas one of those heroes of whom we have given an account inthe note to ;>. ; andthat he was called Bacchus because hedescended from the deity of that name.



Page . Hercules, according to the fable, strangling the Dra≠gons.'} I havr- already observed concerning Hercules, that hewas one of those exalted characters belonging to the human race,who, from their hi^h degree of proximity and alliance to ejsenlialHeroes, were justly called by ihe ancients Heroes xulct yi-rn, oraccording to habitude, and that he energized principally ac≠cording to an intellectual life. As Hercules, therefore, was acharacter of this kind, it would be absurd to consider the pro≠digies related of him as historical facts; but we should view themin the light of fables, under which certain divine truths are con≠cealed. Indeed, to such as consider the accounts given of Her≠cules as historical fists, we may very properly address the wordsof Plato to Dionylius, when he was interrogating him on thisvery subject, I mean the achievements of Hercules, "that if thethings reported of Hercules are true, he was neither the son ofJupiter, nor blessed, but on the contrary miserable: but if hewas the son of Jupiter and blessed, these accounts are false."* ccht.vc zs Js. roif Ta ToixJa fjL:¬ßa.eia Xtyoicn, etxny o aTttxa&i) ‚Ä¢‚Ä¢ ?'. .Ta; hotvcriv iri^\ tov tj^aiiAeyj* oli a ftm Tavla a>.r,S¬ªj isiv, a %tst aviavXt'/avtsit, be Jiio.- r,i, nit nicu^ui, a.},*.' a&XiO{"  ot ii.o; m *ai iviai-



But the meaning of the present fable, as Pausanias very pro≠perly calls it, appears to be as follow.: A dragon is a symbol ofthe partial life of the foul, i. e. of the life which she leads whileseparated from the gods: for as a dragon is said to cast off itsskin and become young again, so the soul acquires rejuvenescency* OlymyioJori MSS. Schol. in Plawnis Gorgiara.



by



 



FIRST VOLUME. -



by alway descending into generation. It is therefore by nomeans wonderful, that Hercules, who was born with intellectualprerogatives so much superior to the bulk of mankind, shouldeven from his infancy have been remarkably united with divinenatures, and thus may be said to have vanquished a partial life,which is implied by his strangling dragons in his infancy. I onlyadd farther concerning Hercules at present, that as he descendedfrom Jupiter, it appears to me that his life was both politic andphilosophic, and this in the highest degree possible to humannature.



Page . Minerva rifing from tht head of Jupiter,,] Minerva,as Plato beautifully observes in the Cratylus, is deific intelligence:and hence she is said to have proceeded from the head of Jupiter,or the demiurgic intellect, by which the world was produced,because she is the progeny of the deific intelligence of this intellect,which is the very summit, flower, and as it were head of Jupiter.



Ibid. . For they first of all denominated Minerva Ergane.]Ergane meanS artificer: and the propriety of this appellationmust be obvious to every one, from what we observed in the pre≠ceding note; I mean, that she is the immediate progeny of theartificer of the universe.



Page . Jupiter, -who it denominated Polieus.'] Polieus meansthe guardian of a city; and this is a very proper epithet of Ju≠piter, because he is the cause of a politic and philosophic life.



Page . In her hand she holds a spear, a shield lies at her feet,and near her spear there is a dragon, -which may perhaps le Erich -thonius; and at the base os the fiatue the generation os Pandora itrepresented.^ The spear of Minerva is a symbol of that all-per-Tading power, through which the gods without control areenabled to pervade the universe, to aid sublunary forms, and toamputate base matter. Her shield signifies that untamed power,which first appears in her essence, and from thence becomes aninvincible defence to the gods; through which they remain securefrom passion, and reign over the universe triumphant and pure.



A dragon



NOTES ON THE



A dragon, too, is very properly considered as one of the symbolsbelonging to this goddess. For, as we have before observed, tbiianimal signifies the partial life of the foul, or, in other words,the condition of its intellect when separated from diif'me intelltBs:and it is the province of Minerva, as we are informed by Proclus,to establish all partial intellects, in the universal intellect of Jupiter.



With respect to Pandora, it is well known that, according tothe fable, (he was a woman made out of earth by Vulcan, at thecommand of Jupiter, in order to take vengeance on Prometheusfor having stolen fire from heaven; that she was adotned by eachgod with some particular gift; and that stie was afterwards sentby Jupiter to Epimetheus the brother of Prometheus with a boxfull of all-various evils. The recondite meaning however of thisfable is, I fear, at present perfectly unknown; and therefore shall present the reader with the following beautiful explanationof it from the MS. Scholia of Olympiodorus on the Gorgias ofPlato:‚Äî" Prometheus is the infpective guardian of the descent oflational souls: for to exert a providential energy is the employ≠ment of the rational foul, and prior to any thing else, to knowitself. Irrational natures indeed perceive through percuffion,and prior to impulsion know nothing: but the rational nature isable, prior to information siom another, to know what is use≠ful. Hence F.pimetbeut is the infpective .guardian of theirrational foul, because it knows through percuffion, and notprior to it. Prometheus, therefore, is that power which presidesover the descent of rational souls. But Jire signifies the rationalsoul itself; because, as sire tends upwards, so the rational soulpursues things on high. But you will fay, Why is this fire said tohave been stolen? I answer, That which is stolen is transferredfrom its proper place to one that is foreign. Since, therefore,the rational soul is sent from its proper place of abode on high,to earth as to a foreign region, on this account the fire is said tobe stolen. But why was it concealed in a reed? Because a reedis cavernous like a conduit pipe (afftyysijijf), and therefore sig≠



nifies



 



FIRST VOLUME.



nifies the fluid body (to {tvrov o-upm) in which the foul is carried.But why was the fire stolen contrary to the will of Jupiter?Again the fable speaks as a fable: for both Prometheus and Ju≠piter are willing that the foul should abide on high; but as it isrequisite that (lie should descend, the fable fabricates particularsaccommodated to the persons. And it represents, indeed, thesuperior character, which is Jupiter, as unwilling; for he wishesthe foul always to abide on high: but the inferior character Pro≠metheus obliges her to descend. Jupiter therefore ordered Pan≠dora to be made. And what else is this, than the irrational soul*,which is of a feminine characteristic? For as it was necessarythat the soul should descend to these lower regions, but, beingincorporeal and divine, it was impossible for her to be conjoinedwith body without a medium, hence she becomes united with itthrough the irrational foul. But this irrational foul was calledPandora, because each of the gods bestowed on it some particular*gift. And tlvs signifies that the illuminations which terrestrialnatures receive, take place through the celestial bodiesf."



I add farther concerning Minerva, from Proclus on the Ti-tn√¶us, that she is called Phospher, because she extends the wholeof intellectual light. The Saviour, as establishing every partialintellect in the total intellections of her father Jupiter. Calliergos,or producing beautiful works, as comprehending all the works ofher father in intellectual beauty. A virgin, as extending anundefiled and unmingled purity. Atgiochos,. or egis-bcaring, asmoving the whole of Fate, and governing its productions. Phi≠losophic, as replete with intellectual knowledge, and the light ofwisdom. And Phi'opolemic, as uniformly ruling over the oppos-



‚Ä¢ The true man, or the rational soul, consists of intellect, cogitation, andopinion: but the summit of the irrational life is the phantasy under which Jijirtlike a many-headed savage beast, mi anger like a raging lion, subsist.



‚ñ†f- For the irrational soul is an immaterial body, or, in other words, vitalizedextension, such as (he mathematical bodies which w¬´ frame in the phantasy; andthe*celestial kodies are of this kind.



Vol. IIL R in*



 NOTES ON THE



ing natures which the world contains. Proclus farther informsus in MSS. Schol. in Cratylum, "that this goddess is calledVictory, and Health; the former, because (he causes intellect torule over necessity, and form over matter; and the latter, becauseshe preserves the universe perpetually whole, perfect, exempt fromage, and free from disease. It is the property therefore of thisgoddess to elevate and distribute, and through an intellectualdance, as it were, to connect, establish, and defend inferior na≠tures in such as are more divine." n aSvta NIKH srgoo-ayojiuilai xaiTriEIA, Toy fito nvi xgoliiy <zou>vtra td; aiayxn;, xai to iiooj Trj; vXn;,¬ªXo> J**ti xai TtXuey, xai a xai ayoa-oy Jiaf uXaVWra to way. sixiw



evi m Ttv Smv vavhff xai to ayayiu, xai uigi¬£iiy, xat Jia t¬ª yeiga;^c^cia; e^cya-lfiv toi; Sitolcgoit, xai Eyiigviiy xai (pcoi^iiy ¬ª avion.



Page . // ir reported that this Jlatue fellfrom heaven.] Thereason why some statues were called by the ancients Diopeteis,is (fays Jamblichus apud Phot. p. ) "because the occultart by which they were fabricated by human hands, wasinconspicuous."



Page . Callimachus made for the Jlatue of the goddess a lampof golds which, when filled with oil, burns day and night for thespace of a year, fife, j The ancients with great propriety dedi≠cated a burning lamp to Minerva, as (he is the goddess of Wis≠dom: for as truth is light itself, and has a most intimate alliancewith wisdom,it is impossible that any corporeal substance can moreaptly symbolize with wisdom than sensible light. Hence Ascle-pius Trallianus in Schol. MSS. in Nicom. Arithmet. Isagogeu.beautifully derives the etymon of <ropi¬´ wisdom from to eras i;the perspicuous and clear. But for the fake of the liberal readerI will transcribe the passage, as the manuscript is very rare, afa



it Ti tp erof la; (fajui oil crania Ti; otxra, v; ca^yjyi^oucra t¬ª it¬´>?¬´.aja Si sroSiy aulo rot/lo capia ¬´Ai^rj; Xsyofity a?ro iov Qulof. oty xaiAfirolfXi-:, TavS" ovo-a cpayolala, Tat/a wipwWfcsya xai xaSorja nahkin ouy to <rapE{ u¬´i ra xix^v^jya ly o-xoty Ti) aynoia (. T¬´{ aynutf)Ms ^H xai yy¬´e-iy ¬´rwpf jtit, &a tovIo ixXrjSi) oi/lv(. i. e, "What then



FIRST VOLUME. 



is wisdom? We reply that it is a certain clearness, as being thatwhich renders all things perspicuous. But from whence wasthis word clearness denominated? We reply, From light. Fromwhence also Aristotle calls all such things as are apparent, lumi≠nous and pure. Since therefore the clear is accustomed to leadinto light and knowledge tilings concealed in the darkness ofignorance, on this account it is thus denominated."



The following remarkable passage, indeed, mews that the an≠cients were in possession of a stone, from which they made ever≠burning wicks for lamps. This passage is from Apollonius, inhis little treatise entitled lr^'<u auf¬ªas-iai, or Wonderful Hiflories',and is taken from Tacus. Taxo; iv ru ?rspi Xi)¬´v,  xapuj-m; (pflo-i>>)Xi,o¬´t¬ªor*io; (a-iiptjiif i^ti i;iu$u; itj jfpswJii;, t¬£o'J mSslai x) vfaiulcuJ¬£¬´ip!Xjii-)Sia. rfifwo-h Ji i| avlov ¬´j it taints, x] ij-ih x ,/Arj* Axciu-pa



axalaxai/ra. t¬´> ¬£e ixpaytiut TWy pfrraKa^svA.'i' ij TrXvcrt; yt}v/!ai,sil fJalo?, aXXa xAiua'ij (forte xXij/x≈ìli--) xaslcci, x} Ttsli rt tx^ayiion‚Ä¢TiTiStlai. <CjHfi.it pMroj aroppsi, a.lo J:Xivxm xxi xxSzpof yttilau u.jo rouwi'po;, cat TraXiv ek Ti; au!a; ly/frifsi j^p:ia;. t* i' iWv^ni //¬´¬ª!( tg¬ªaxanlct xt"" wAxpxivm?¬´ xaio^wa fell* tXaioy &r¬´fia¬£fi oi x.-.i t¬ªW{



ovlo;, xai tt Kupvry y.w ap* ov xa* Tbtoucc eXoi√Üic wx>.u; J! ev Kuirfu Kotlet-QsutfitiUtHTo Tof; rs^av^jpof a),-  XoXov; ro;(yofAsyoi?, in apirsp* tow EX-funov fffo xalai irilpwr. xai xxia to ra¬ªj-tXv;f,¬ª av¬£ia¬ª, xau craXi¬ª pSivailof-rou o-fXnHiu futalai xjh o A>oc. Tlmt is, "Tacus in his Treatise onStones fays, that the stone which is called Caryflius contains acertain woolly and coloured substance, from which garments arespun and wove. Wicks for lamps likewise are twisted from thissubstance, which burn with a clear light, without being con≠sumed. These garments, too, are not purified from the dirtwhich they contract by water; but they enkindle the branchesof vines, and then place the garments on them. The dirt is bythis means removed, ami the garments become white and purethrough the fire, and adapted to the purposes for which theywere before employed. But the wiclt which are formed from



R  thu



= NOTES ON THE



this substance for lamps, -when burnt with oil, give a perpetual Tight,‚Ä¢without requiring frtjh supply- By the smell too of these lamps,those that labour under the falling sickness are detected. Thi¬ªHone grows in Carystus, from whence it derives its name. Itlikewise abounds in that part of Cyprus through which youdescend from Gerandrum towards Soli, on the left hand of El-m√¶us beneath the rocks. This stone increases about the fullmoon, and is diminished when the moon decreases." It appearsfrom this curious passage, that this stone Carystius must be the-same with lir.um vivum, or ajbeftinum.



What Plutarch too, in his treatise, Why the Oracles cease I*jive answers, says concerning the non-existence of this stone inhis time, particularly deserves the attention of the philosophicreader. "It is not long (fays he) since the quarry of Carystushas ceased to yield a certain soft stone, which used to be drawninto a fine thread  for I suppose that some here have seen tow≠els, net-work, and coifs, woven of that tiiread which could notbe burnt; but when they were soiled with using, people threwthem into the fire, and took them out white and clean; for thefire only served to purify them. But all this is vanished, andnothing is to be found in the quarry now, but some few fibres orharry threads, lying scattered up and down. Aristotle and hi.followers affirm, that the cause of all this is owing to an exha≠lation within the earth, the phainomena proceeding from whichfail, or again make their appeaiance, when this exhalation fails,or revives and recovers itself again." The reason why this stonesometimes fails, and at others appears again,can only be satisfacto≠rily accounted for by that theory respecting fertile and barren pe≠riods, which the reader will find unfolded in the note to page .



With respect to the lamp mentioned by Pausanias, whetherits burning day and night for a year was entirely owing to thewick being made of Carpalian flax, so that the lamp was notlarger than the lamps used in common, deserves tobe investigatedby the curious in natural researches. But that the ancients pos≠sessed



FIRST VOLUME. 



scssed the art of constructinglamps that would burn for many ageswithout supply, I think the liberal reader wiD be fully convinced,from perusing the following account of lamps found in ancientsepulchres, collected from Licetus, De Lucernis Antiquorum,Baptista Porta, and Pancirollus.



In the first, place, then, Baptista Porta in his treatise of Natu≠ral Magic, relates, that about the year , in the island Nefuin Naples, a marble sepulchre of a certain Roman was discover≠ed, upon the opening of which, a phial was found containinga burning lamp. This lamp became extinct on breaking thephial, and exposing the light to the open air. It appeared thatthis lamp had been concealed before the advent of Christ. Thosewho saw the lamp reported, that it emitted a most splendid flame.But the most celebrated is the lamp of Pallas the son of Evander,who was killed by Turnus, as Virgil relates in the tenth book ofhis √Üneid.



This was discovered not far from the city of Rome, in theyear , by a countryman, who digging deeper than usual, ob≠served a stone sepulchre, containing the body of a man of ex≠traordinary size, which was as entire as if recently interred, andwhich had a large wound in the breast. Above the head of thedeceased there was found a lamp burning with perpetual fire,which neither wind nor water, nor any other superinduced liquorcould extinguish: but the lamp being bored in the bottom, andbroke by the importunate enemies of this wonderful light, theflame immediately vanished. That this was the body of Pallas,is evident from the inscription on the tomb, which was atfollows:



Pallas, Evander's son, whom Turnus' spearIn battle slew, of mighty bulk, lies here.



In the Appian Road too, at Rome, in the time of Pope Paulthe Third, a lamp was discovered burning in the sepulchre of Tul-lia the daughter of Cicero, which became extinct on the admis-



R  fion



/



e NOTES ON THE



fion of the external air. From whence it appears that this lamp



had continued to (hine for about  years. The historian,Pancirollus, who mentions this lamp, is a respectable author, andrelates it as a well-known fact, in his curious book, entitled, Con≠cerning memorable Things known to the Antients, but now-lost.



Saint Austin too (De Civitat. Dei, I.. cap. .) fays, thata lamp was found in a temple dedicated to Venus, which wasalways exposed to the open weather, and could never be con≠sumed, or extinguished. And Ludovicua Vives, his commen≠tator, mentions another lamp, which was found a little before histime, that had continued burning for  years.



A very remarkable lamp was discovered about the year ,near Atestes, a town belonging to Padua in Italy, by a rustic,who digging deeper than usual, sound an earthen urn, contain≠ing another urn, in which last was a lamp placed between twocylindrical vessels, one of gold, and the other of silver, and eachof which was full of a very pure liquor, by whose virtue, it isprobable, the lamp had continued to (hine for upwards of years; and, unless it had been exposed to the air, might havecontinued its wonderful light for a still greater period of time.This curious lamp was the workmanship of one Maximus Oly-bius, who most probably effected this wonder by a profoundskill in the chymical art. On the greater urn some verses wereinscribed in Latin, which may be translated as follows:



I.



Plund'rers, forbear this gift to touch,



'Tis awful Pluto's own:A secret rare the world conceals,



To such as you unknown.



II.



Olybius in this slender vase



The elements has chain'd;Digested with laborious art,



From secret science gain'd.



III. With



 



FIRST VOLUME.



HI.



With guardian care two copious urns



Tht costly juice confine,Lest, thro' the ruins of decay,



The lamp should cease to shine.



On the lesser urn were the following verses:



Plund'rers with prying eyes, away IWhat mean ye by this curious stay fHence with your cunning, patr¬ªn god¬´With bonnet wing'd, and magic rod ISacred alone to Pluto's name,This mighty work, of endless fame.



It appears to me, that the perpetuity of these lamps was ow≠ing to the consummate tenacity of the unctuous matter withwhich the flame was united, being so proportioned to the strengthof the fire, that, like the radical moisture and natural heat inanimals, neither of them could conquer or destroy the other.Licetus, who is of this opinion, observes, that in order to pre≠serve this equality of proportion, the ancients hid these lamps incaverns, or close monuments: and hence it has happened, thaton opening these tombs, the admission of fresh air to the lampshas produced so great an inequality between the flame and theoil, that they have been presently extinguished.



Page . Cancpboroi.] So called, from carrying cannisters inwhich the sacred rites were deposited.



Page . The Crommyonlan hoar.] I have already observedthat the labours of Hercules are allegorical: perhaps, therefore,his destroying this boar signifies his subduing the fierce and sa≠vage nature of the passions.



Page . But it itsaid of Pan, tsfc.~\ Pan, according to theOrphic theology, is the monad or summit of all the sublunarylocal gods and d√¶mons, and first subsists at the extremity of theintelligible order, being there, as we are informed by Damascius,‚ñ†o other than the celebrated Protogonus, or Phancs. As the



R  Moon



¬ª¬´ NOTES ON THE



Moon therefore, as well as many other divinities, is celebratedby the Orphic theologists as both male and female, perhaps Panis the masculine pow er of the moon: and this opinion is strength≠ened by the following curious passage from Stephanus deUrbibus,in the article Panos. "There is (fays he) a great statue ofPan, with its private parts raised in a straight direction to thelength of seven singers. The right hand of the statue holdswhips elevated towards the moon, of which luminary they fayPan is an image." c$-¬ª ¬∞t w itov ayaXjua piyx, efiiaxot <x*< t¬´ai^oioy ¬ª; iwla $ax\v.ois. iTalMI Tl /xafi)a; TV ci^tx fftXtjkii r,; niu>.tt



Qcuw nta.i to¬ª Uam. Let the reader, however, carefully remem≠ber that the Pan seen by the Laced√¶monian messenger was adsemoniacal power, and not the divinity of this name.



Page . √Üschylus was the first that represented these divinitietwith snakes in their hair.~] Those who are of opinion that the Or≠phic hymns are spurious compositions, will doubtless imaginethat their opinion is indisputably confirmed by the prtsent pas≠sage: for the furies in these hymns* are called opKKrXoxajKoi, orfnaly-haired; and consequently it may be said, they must havebeen written posterior to the time of √Üschylus, if what Pausa-nias asserts be true. It must, however, be remembered, that √Üs≠chylus was accused of inserting in his tragedies things belongingto the mysteriesf; and I (hall produce some very strong argu≠ments in the course of these notes, to prove that the Orphichymns which have come down to us, are the very hymns whichwere used in the Eleusinian mysteries. If this be the cafe, eitherPausanias is mistaken in what he asserts of √Üschylus iq thisplace; or, which appears to me to be more probable, being a manreb'gioufly fearful of disclosing any particulars belonging to themysteries, he means that no one prior to √Üschylus openly repre≠sented the Furies with snakes in their hair; or, in other words,that √Üschylus was the first prophane writer (as a Christian would



‚Ä¢ Vid. hym. .



f Vid. Fabric. Bibljoth. torn. I. p. ,



express



FIRST VOLUME. 



express himself, when speaking os some pagan, with reference tothe authors of the Bible) who described the Furies in this man≠ner. I (hall only observe farther at present, that there is a pas≠sage in the Cataplus of Lucian, which very much corroboratesmy opinion. The passage is as follows: "Tell me, Cynic, foryou are initiated in the Eleusmian Myfleries, do not the presentparticulars appear to you similar to those which take place in theMysteries? Cyn. Very much so. See then, here comes a cer≠tain torch-bearer, with d dreadful and threatening countenance. Itit therefore one of the Furies?" nvt (ici, iliXsfffijit ya%, u Ktwxf, teti),iwm>, euj¬£ ouoia toij ixsi t<x t&x.$t  ioxn; KTN. iv Aiytij, ¬ªJo¬ª¬ªv¬ª irpoffif^ilai t¬ª; J¬ªjot/;¬£OW¬´ ti<, (pcQifci T¬ª, xai airu^ipmut tfvweef n ttfa %ov ifinv; ijh; It is evident from this passage, thatthe Furies in the Mysteries were of a terrible appearance, whichPausanias informs us was not the cafe with their statues: and itis from the circumstance of the statues of these divinities notbeing in the least dreadful in their appearance, that he infers√Üschylus was the first that represented them so. Hence, as theMysteries were instituted long before √Üschylus, it is evident,,that the terrible aspects of the Furies were not invented by him:and it is more than probable that this dreadful appearance wasprincipally caused by the snake in their hair. The same Or≠phic hymn, too, calls the Furie $oGfpwirec, i. e. having terrificaspects.



Page .] The verses of Homer, alluded to by Pausanias, areto be found in the d book of the Iliad; and are thus trans≠lated by Mr. Pope:



 and emulate ity sire,



The great Mecistheus; who, in days of yore,In Theban games the noblest trophy bore,(The games ordain'd dead Oedipus to grace)And singly vanquistVd-the Cadm√¶an race.



Page . For the pomp of the Panathenaia."] The Atheni≠ans had two festivals ip honour of Minerva, the former of which,







ico NOTES ON THE



on account os the greater preparation required in its celebration,was called the greater Panathcnaia; and the latter, on account ofits requiring a less apparatus, was denominated thelejfer Panatbe-naia. The ctlebration of them likewise was distinguished by-longer and sliorter periods of time. In the greater Panathenaia,too, the veil of the goddess was carried about, in which, faysProclus, the giants were represented vanquished by the Olym≠pian gods. Proclus farther informs us (in Tim. p. .) thatthese festivals signified the beautiful order wfcich proceeds intothe world from intellect, and the unconfused distinction of mun≠dane contrarieties. But what are we to understand by the veilof the goddess, and the victory obtained over the giants? I an≠swer, Her veil is an emblem of that one life or nature of theuniverse, which, as Proclus observes, the goddess weaves, by thoseintellectual vital powers which her essence contains: and the bat≠tle of the giants against the Olympian gods, signifies the oppo≠sition between the last demiurgic powers of the universe (orthose powers which partially fabricate and proximately presideover mundane natures), and such as are first. But Minerva issaid to have vanquished the giants, because she rules over theseultimate artificers of things, by her unifying powers,



Page . Ar 'ifle and Call\Jle.~\ That is, hejl and miji beautiful.It appears to me, that Diana was thus denominated from herintimate alliance with Apollo: for Proclus, in his MSS. Scholiaon the Cratylus, informs us that there is a great correspondencebetween the Coric* or virginal series, and the Apolloniacal."For (fays he) the former is the unity of the middle triad ofrulers, i. e. of the supermundane gods, and emits from herselfvivisic powers: but the latter converts the solar principles to oneunion: and the solar principles are allotted a subsistence imme-



* Thisseries constitutes the vivisic triad of supermundane gods, and con≠sists of Diana, Proserpine, and Minerva; or, according Co the Chaldasantheologists, of Hecate, Soul, and Virtue, which are only different namesof the fame powers. >



diatelj



FIRST VOLUME.



diately after the vlvisic. Hence, according to Orpheus, whenCeres delivered up the government to Proserpine, she thus ad≠monished her:



AJIaf A-oX/.airoj SaAif¬´¬ª Xijjof wanaZcum^



i. e.



But next Apollo's florid bed ascend;



For thus the god fam'd offspring (hall beget,



Refulgent with the beams of glowing fire.



But how could this be the cafe, unless there was a considerabledegree of communion between these divinities?" As A polio, there≠fore, from his analogy to the good, or the first cause, may very pro≠perly be called the lejl (for Apollo emits from his esfenct intellec≠tual, and the good superessential light), Diana likewise may be thusdenominated from her intimate alliance with Apollo. The famereason too accounts for her being called mojl beautiful: for Mer≠cury, Venus, and Apollo, compose the supermundane elevatingtriad, and are most profoundly united to each other.



Page . The demon Anteros.~] Of this power, who avengesthe injuries of lovers, the following remarkable story is told byEunapius in his Life of Jamblichus: "This philosopher wentwith his disciples to Gadara in Syria, a place so famous for baths,that after Bai√¶ in Campania it is the second in the Roman em≠pire. Here a dispute about baths arising while they were bath≠ing, Jamblichus smiling said to them: 'Though what I amgoing to disclose is not pious, yet for your fakes it (hall be un≠dertaken;' and at the fame time he ordered his disciples to en≠quire of the natives, what appellations had been formerly givento two of the hot fountains, which were indeed less than theothers, but more elegant. Upon enquiry, they found themselvesunable to discover the cause of their nomination; but were in≠formed that the one was t ailed Eros or Love, and the other An-teros, or the god ivho avenges the injuries of lovers. Jamblichusimmediately touching the water with his hand (for he fat, per≠haps, on the margin of the fountain),and murmuring a few words,



raised



NOTES ON THE



raised from the bottom of the fountain a fair boy, of a moderatestature, whose hair seemed to be tinged with gold, and the upperpart of whose breast was of a luminous appearance. His com≠panions being astonished at the novelty of the affair, Let us passon, fays he, to the next fountain; and at the fame time he arose,fixed in thought, and, performing the same ceremonies as before,called forth the other Love, who was in all respects similar to theformer, except that his hair scattered in his neck was blacker,and was like the fun in refulgence. At the fame time, both theboys eagerly embraced Jamblichus, as if he had been their na≠tural parent: but he immediately restored them to their properfeats, and, when he had washed, departed from the place." Letthe reader, however, be careful to remember, that though Erosand Anteros are gods considered according to their first subsist≠ence, yet these which are mentioned by Eunapius were of thed√¶moniacal order; and were perhaps d√¶mons only xaia. o-x'ov, ac-eording to habitude, or alliance.



Page . Carrying with them burning lamps."] The proprietyof employing burning lamps, in a contest sacred to Prometheut,is sufficiently apparent from the account we have already given ofthis divinity. For Prometheus, we have shewn, is the inspec-tive guardian of the descent of rational souls; and fire, from itstending upwards, is an emblem of the rational foul. As a burn≠ing lamp therefore may be considered as a very proper image ofour rational part, it appears to me, that this custom adopted bythe Athenians, of running from the altar of Prometheus to thecity with burning lamps, in which he alone was victoiious whoselamp remained unextinguished in the race, was intended to signi≠fy that he is the true conqueror in the race of life, whose rationalpart is not extinguished, or, in other words, does not become dor≠mant in the career.



Page , For Socrates, in the night k'fore that day on whichPlato became his disciple, Jaw in a dream a swan jy to his bosom.]The foul of Plato, according to the ancients, descended from Apollo,



 



FIRST VOLUME. *S



Apollo, to whom the swan is sacred; and consequently this birdplainly signified Plato in the dream of Socrates. Olympiodorustoo, in his Life of Plato, informs us, that when that philosopherwas near his death, he dreamt that he was changed into a (wan,and that, by flying from tree to tree, he gave much trouble to thefowlers in catching him: and this dream, fays he, according to theSocratic Simmias, signified that his meaning would not be appre≠hended by his interpreters. For interpreters are similar to fowlers,by attempting to explain the conceptions of the ancients: andPlato's meaning cannot be apprehended, because his discourses,like those of Homer, may be understood physically, ethically,theologically, and in short multifariously. For the souls of Homerand Plato are said to have been produced all-harmonic. Let ithowever be remembered, that though Plato's meaning was byno means apprehended by his more ancient interpreters, yet it is'most divinely and fully unfolded by the latter Platonists, amongwhom Olympiodorus holds a very distinguished place.



Page . Jipolh changed him into the bird whose name he boreS\Nothing more appears to be signisiedby this fable, than that Cyc-nus was a man wholly given to external harmony, and who there≠fore knew nothing of philosophy, which is the greatest music, asPlato in the Ph√¶do beautifully observes. In consequence there≠fore of this neglect of his foul he became united with the life ofa swan, as the punishment of his guilt. But observe, that whenthe rational soul is said to be changed into a brute, the meaning is,that the foul becomes bound to the life of a brute in the fame man≠ner as otirpresiding d√¶mons are united with our fouls: for the hu≠man foul never becomes the animating part of a brute, any moiethan d√¶mons become human fouls. I only add, that the doctrine oftransmigration when viewed in this light is extremely beautiful:and Syrianus and Proclus were, I believe, the first by whom it wasthus explained.



Page . There is a temple of Ceres Tbesmophorui.~\ Cere* wa¬ªwith great propriety worshipped by the ancients as Thcsmophorut,



or



+ NOTES ON THE



ot the legislator: for this goddess, as we are informed by SalluS,De Diis et Mundo, according to her mundane distribution is thedivinity of the planet Saturn: Saturn, according to Plato in theCratylus, is pure intelleS; and law, according to the fame greatphilosopher in his Laws, is ¬ª<w han/xn, a dijlribution of intelleS.



Page . The Jirjl fruits of the Hyperboreans are fent.~\ It ap≠pears from the Scholiast on Pindar, that the Greeks called theTliracians Boreans: there is therefore (fays Larclur) great pro≠bability, that they called the people beyond these Hyperboreans.Callimachus, in his hymn to Delos, mentions these people inthe following lines, as translated by Dr. Dodd:



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî states flowing from each clime



Of the well-peopled globe, from east to west,From Arctic and Antarctic pole‚Äîwhere Heav'n,The virtue of the habitants rewardsWith length of days: these to the Delian godBegin the grand procession; and in handThe holy sheaves and mystic offerings bear.



Page . Commit them to the Arima/pi.^ The Arimafpi wereHyperborean Cyclopians, who dwelt about the Scythian riverArimafpus, which is full of golden sands.



Page . Apollo Dionysv.hlus.~\ Perhaps instead of hcrjaihlo;it should be JbiwJI?;, Dionyfoter or the saviour of Bacchus. Myreasons for supposing that this alteration is requisite, are de≠rived from the following curious and beautiful passage, from theMS. Commentary of Olympiodonis on the Phacdo of Plato:"In order," fays he, "to the soul's descent, it is necessary thatshe should first establish an animating image of herself in thebody; and in the second place, that she should sympathize withthe image, according to a similitude of form: for every formpasses into a sameness with itself, through naturally verging toitself. In the third place, being situated in a divisible nature,it is necessary that she should be lacerated and scattered togetherwith such a nature, and that she should fall into an ultimate



distri≠



FIRST VOLUME 



distribution, till, through the energies of a cathartic life, (heraises herself from the extreme dispersion, and loosens the bondof sympathy through which (he is united with body: and till,at the fame time energizing without the image, (he becomes esta≠blished according to her primary life. And we may behold aresemblance of all this in the frjle respecting Bacchus, the ex≠emplar of our intellect. For it is sajd that Dionysius, establish≠ing his image in a mirror, pursued it, and thus became distri≠buted iato the universe. But Apollo excited and elevatedBacchus; this god being a cathartic deity, and the true sa≠viour of Dionysius, and on this account he is celebrated as Di-enyfoter*." Such as are desirous of feeing the original of thiscurious passage, and many important particulars respecting themysteries of Bacchus unfolded, from Greek manuscripts, mayconsult my Dissertation on the Elexfinian and Bacchic Mysteries.



Page . And of Earth, whom they call a mighty goddess."]Earth is called by Plato, in the Timaeus, the most ancient andfirst of the gods in the heavens: and this, fays Proclus, on ac≠count of her stability and generative power, her symphony withheaven, and her position in the centre of the universe. Forthe centre possesses a mighty power in the universe, as connect≠ing all its circulations; and hence it was called by the Pytha≠goreans the tower of Jupiter, from its containing a demiurgicguard. And if we recollect the Platonic hypothesis concerningthe earth, that our habitable part is nothing but a daik hollow,and very different from the true earth, which is adorned with abeauty similar to that of the heavens, we shall have no occasionto wonder at her being called the first and most ancient of thecelestial gods." Put the Platonic hypothesis which Proclus al≠ludes to is this, which is an Egyptian tradition: that the summitof the earth is ethereal, in order that it may unite with the orbof the moon; that it is every where perforated with holes like a



* In the MS. it is ^.y.i-n.r,.;; but mould doubtless be read SunvetUpf.



pumice



 NOTES ON THE



pumice stone; and that we reside at the bottom of certain ofthese hollows, while we fancy that we dwell on the summit ofthe earth. The great antiquity of this doctrine may be collectedfrom what Homer fays in the Iliad, that Heaven and Earth arecommon to the three divinities, Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto*:and consequently each of these mull be divided between them.The earth, therefore,must be divided analogous to the universe;into that which is celestial, terrestrial, and middle. And theremust be some part of it ethereal, which belongs to Jupiter. Asthis part therefore cannot be the surface on which we reside, itmust consequently be contiguous to the moon. See more con≠cerning this curious and interesting theory, in my Introductionsto the Ph√¶do and Tim√¶us of Plato.



Page . Ceres Anefidora.~\ This word means the bejlower ofgifts, and is agreeable to the etymon of Ceres given by Plato inthe Cratylus: for Jiytiilup, fays he, is Ji?<¬ª<r<* luStf, a he/lowingmother. But why this goddess was so called by the wife ancients,the following beautiful extract from the MSS. Scholia of Procluson the Cratylus will abundantly unfold: "It is requisite toconsider this goddess, not only as the supplier of corporeal food,but, beginning from the gods, we should view her as first of allsupplying them with aliment, afterwards the natures posteriorto the gods, and last of all such as are indigent of corporealaliment. For the characteristic of love shines forth first ofall in the gods: and this is the cafe with the medicinal andprophetic powers of Apollo, and with those of every otherdivinity. But nutriment, when considered with reference to thegods, is the communication of intellectual plenitude from moreexalted natures to those of au inferior rank. Gods thereforeare nourished, when they view with the eye of intellect godsprior to themselves; when they are persecteJ, and view intelli≠gible beauties, such as justice itself, temperance itself, and the



* Tcua y lit |tw vajlut kcu paxfo; oTifftiej. Iliad. .



like.



-



First Volume. i$i



like, as Plato observes in the Phsedrus." Shortly after this, beobserves, " that according to Orpheus, Ceres is the fame withRhea: for Orpheus fays that, subsisting on high in unproceedingOnion with Saturn, me is Rhea, but that, by emitting and genera≠ting Jupiter, file is Ceres. For thus he speaks:



Pti>j¬ª To wfvfmatmi urn Sio; trXilo (uSffTiyon ififtrirrif*.



i. e.



The goddess who was Rhia, when sl¬ªe bortJove, became Ctrei.



"But Hesiod fays that Ceres is the daughter of Rhea. It ishowever evident that these theologists harmonize with eachother: for whether this goddess proceeds from union withSaturn to a secondary order, or whether file is the first progenyof Rhea, she is still the fame. Ceres therefore being of this kind,and receiving the most ancient and ruling order, from the wholevivific Rheaf, and comprehending the middle centres of tuhole‚ñ†vivification J, (he (ills all supermundane natures with the riversof all-perfect life, pouring upon all things vitality, indivisiblyand uniformly.



"But prior to all this, (he unfolds to us the demiurgic intellect,(Jupiter) and imparts to him the pawer of vivifying wholes.For, as Saturn supplies her from on high with the cause of being;so Ceres from on high, and from her own prolific bosoms, poursforth vivification to the demiurgus. But possessing herself themiddle of all vivific deity, (he governs the whole fountains which(he contains, and comprehends the one bond of the first andlast powers of life. She stably convolves too and contains allsecondary fountains. But (he leads forth the uniform causes ofprior natures to the generation of others. This goddess too



‚Ä¢ This Orphic fragment was never before publimed.‚ñ†f- T¬´i ¬£¬´oyo¬ªoi> {‚Ä¢¬´<‚Ä¢



* Vot.HL S com.



NOTES ON THE



comprehends Vrjla and Juno: in her right hand parts Juno, whapours forth the whole order of fouls; but in her left hand partsVesta, who leads forth all the light of Virtue. Hence, Ceres iswith great propriety called bj Plato, mother, and, at the fametime, the supplier of aliment. For, so far as she comprehendsin herself the cause of Juno, (he is a mother; but as containingVesta in her essence, (he is the supplier of aliment. But the pa≠radigm of this goddess is Night: for immtrtal Night is called thtnurse if the godt. Night however is the cause of aliment in≠telligibly*: for that which is intelligible is, according to theoracles, the aliment of the intellectual orders of gods. ButCeres first of all separates the two kinds of aliment in the gods,as Orpheus fays:



M¬´<retlo ¬•t^cTtrv, fpSpou vixlago; apSpov.Miiirxlo ox-.r.xx try* p.:/.i"^i'¬ª t^DiiSun.



i. e.



She cares for pow'rs ministrant, whether theyOr gods fmr.lt, or folltvj, or surround:Anthrofia, and ttnacioui ntdtr red,Are too the objects of her bounteous care.Last to the bee her providence extends,Who gathers honey with resounding hum.



"Ceres therefore, our sovereign mistress (hc-ireim), not only ge≠nerates life, but that which gives perfection to life; and this fromsupernal natures to such as are last : for -virtue is the perfeSlion offouls. Hence mothers who are connected with the circulationsof time, -bring forth their offspring in imitation of this two-fold



‚Ä¢ Because Night subsists at the summit of that divine order, which iscalled by the Chaldscan theologists roifloJ wipoj, intelligible and at ttx i;vtttme tnttlleSual.,



f That is, according to one of the Chald√¶an oracles.J These Terses too were never before printed.



Ml



 



FIRST VOLUME. 



Snd eternal generation of Ceres. For, at the seme tfme that theyfend forth their young into the light, they extend to them milknaturally produced, as their food."



Page . And when the Atheniamsenquired of the oracle, &C., There are very few, I fear, of the present day, who do not con≠sider the oracles of the ancients as mere delusions; and who donot ascribe the accomplishment of their predictions, either to thetricks of designing priesti, or the random power of chance.This, however, must necessarily be the cafe at a period when di≠vine influence is totally withdrawn, and delusion and perfectatheism are the substitutes for the genuine religion of mankind.While men indeed are ignorant that true theology (and suchwas that of the ancients) is perfectly scientific, being founded onthe clearest and most natural conceptions of the human mind; andwhile in consequence of this ignorance they believe nothing to bereal, but objects of fense, the doctrine of a communication be≠tween men and divine natures must appear ridiculous in the ex≠treme. And yet one should think, that history must convincethe most incredulous, that the" numerous instances in which thepredictions of, oracles have been so wonderfully accomplished.Could not be the result either of chance or intrigue. Indeed, hewho can read the many instances of this- kind adduced by Pau-sanias, and yet deny the possibility of man communicating withhigher powers, must either be an atheist or a fool.



For the fake therefore of the lover of divinity, I shall sum≠marily disclose the scientific theory of oracles, according to the.philosophy of Plato. As there is not one father of the universeonly, one providence, and one divine law, but many fatherssubordinate to the one first father, many administrators of pro≠vidence posterior to, and comprehended in the one universal pro≠vidence of the demiurgus of all things, and many laws proceed≠ing from one first law, it is necessary that there should be dif≠ferent allotments, aad a diversity of divine distribution. Hencetfcere are allotments of partial fouls, such as ours, of unpolluted



S a souls,



zo NOTES ON THE



souls, such as heroes, beneficent d√¶mons and angels, and of thegods themselves. But the allotments of angels, d√¶mons andheroes are suspended from those of the gods, and possess a morevarious distribution: for one divine allotment comprehends manyangelic allotments, and a still greater number of such as are dse-moniacaL For multitude is every where suspended from one prin≠ciple. Arid as in essences, powers and energies, progression*from these generate a kindred multitude; so with respect toallotments, such as are first transcend in power, but are dimi≠nished according to multitude, as being nearer the one father ofthe universe, and the one total providence which he contains;but such as are second to these possess a subordinate power, andan increased multitude.



Such then being the general particulars respecting the theoryof allotments, the next thing to be considered is, that the allot≠ment of a divine nature, whether celestial or sublunary, is anunrestrained government, and a providential energy about thesubjects of its government. By unrestrained government I meiaan exemption from all passivity, and from any tendency towardsor alliance with subordinate natures: for every thing divine itat the fame time every where aud no where. It is every where,considered as illuminating all things with its own ineffable light *and it is no where, considered as exempt from all the propertiesof the natures which it illumines. The fame too must be un≠derstood, in an inferior degree, of those beneficent natures that arethe perpetual attendants of the gods: for the energy of these alsois unrestrained, but not in that transcendant manner in which itis possessed by the gods. In the third place, the allotments of thegods and their attendants are perpetual: for immutabilityis the essential property of a divine nature, and consequent*ly must be communicated to that which perpetually attendsdivinity, and exerts a beneficent energy. But notwithstand≠ing this immutability of better natures, yet in order to the



propef



 



FIRST VOLUME.



proper reception of their illuminations, it is necessary that thereshould be as perfect an aptitude in the recipients as they are ca≠pable of receiving. Hence, as in generation, or the sublunaryregion, wholes remain perpetually according to nature, bnt theirparts are sometimes according and sometimes contrary to nature,this mull be true of the parts of the earth. When those circu≠lations therefore take place, during which the parts of the earthsubsist according to nature, and this is accompanied with a con≠currence of proper instruments aud places, then divine illu≠mination is abundantly and properly received. But when theparts of the earth subsist contrary to nature, as at present, andwhich has been the cafe ever since the oracles ceased, then, asthere is no longer an aptitude of places, instruments and times,divine influence can no longer be received, though the illumi≠nations of divine natures continue immutably the fame; just,fays Proclus, as if a face standing in the fame position, a mirrorshould at one time receive a clear image of it, and at another,one obscure and debile, or indeed no image at all. For, as thefame incomparable man farther observes, it is no more properto refe.r the defect of divine inspiration to the gods, than toaccuse the sun as the cause os the moon being eclipsed, insteadof the conical shadow of the earth into which the moon falls.



Page . There is a temple of Nemesis, EsV.] Proclus on He-siod informs us, that Nemrfis was celebrated in hymns as theangel of justice; and that she is represented by Hesiod clothedin a white garment, because she is an intellectual power, far re≠moved from the atheistic and dark essence of the passions.



Page . The river of the Ocean."] Herodotus in Euterpefays, "that he knows no river of the name of Ocean, and thathe believes it was either invented by Homer, or some poet offormer times:" and Mr. Wood is of opinion, "that the Oceanin Homer's time had a very different meaning from tht whichit now conveys." Herodotus is certainly right in what he fays,



S  ar



 NOTES ON THE



as he only considered the sensible Ocean; and Mr. Wood discoverssome sagacity in conjecturing, that Ocean formerly had a differ≠ent meaning from what it has at present. For, when Homer callsOcean a river, he alludes to the deity of this name, who belongsto that order of gods which is called intellectual, and of whichSaturn is the summit; who is a fontal deity myeu*; to;, andis therefore very properly denominated a river, as giving birthto theprocej/swn of the gods into the sensible universe, and being,according to his last, subsistence, the source of the sea and theall-various streams that flow upon the earth. For every cause isthat primarily, which its effect is secondarily: and hence causeswere assigned by ancient theologists the. fame names with theireffects. Concerning this deity, Proclus in his MSS. Scholia onthe Cratylus observes as follows: "Ocean is the cause to all thegods of acute and vigorous energy, and bounds the distinctionsof the first, middle, and last orders; converting himself to him≠self, and to his proper principles, through swiftness of intellect,but moving all things from himself to energies accommodated totheir natures; perfecting their powers, and causing them to pos≠sess a never-failing subsistence.'' And in his Commentaries onthe, Tim√¶us, p. , he observes of this deity, considered ac≠cording to his sublunary subsistence, "that he is the cause ofmotion, progression and power, conferring vigour and prolificabundance on intellectual lives, but swiftness of energy andpurity in generations to fouls, and facility of motion to bodies.That considered as subsisting in tbe gods (i. e. in sublunarygods) he comprehends a motive and providential cause: but inangels he comprehends an unfolding and intellectual swiftness:in d√¶mons, efficacious power: and in heroes he is the supplieros a magnificent and efficacious life. Besides this, he imparts toevery element the characteristic of his nature. Thus, with re≠spect to air, he produces all the mutation of aerial natures, ands, as Aristotle observes, the cause of the circle of the meteors.



But



FIRST VOLUME. 



"But in die watry element he is the cause of fertility, facilityof motion, and all-various powers: for, according to the poet*,



From him the sea and ev'ry river flows.



In earth he is the source of generative perfection, of the dis≠tinction of forms, and of generation and corruption. Hence,such terrestrial orders as are vivific and demiurgic he defines;and such powers as comprehend the reasons of earth, and are theinfpective guardians of generation, he excites and multiplies,and calls forth into motion." And shortly after, he adds,"that Ocean in fine is the cause of all motion; intellectual, be≠longing to fouls ; and natural, to all secondary natures: but Te-tbjs is the cause.of all the distinction os the streams proceedingfrom the Ocean, conferring on each a proper purity of naturalmotion."



I only add, that it is peculiar to the Platonic philosophy tosuspend physics from theology, and this in imitation of Orpheus,who suspends Nature herself from the vivisic goddess Rhea, whois the cause of all life, both that which is intellectual, and thatwhich is inseparable from the fluctuating nature of bodies.This peculiarity must surely be pleasing to every one that isnot atheistically inclined; at the fame time, that by leading usup to such principles as are truly first, it enables us to removethe veil which conceals the mystic wisdom of the ancients, andcauses it to appear in the eyes of the multitude inextricably con≠fused, and beyond all comparison absurd. The trutli of thisobservation will be immediately assented to, by any one whounderstands the above explanation of Ocean.



Page . Table os the Sun.~\ The table of the Sun, accordingto Herodotus in Thai, was this:‚Äî"A plain in the vicinity ofthe city (above Syene in √Üthiopia) was filled to the heightof four feet with the roafled flesh of all kinds of animals, whichwas carried there in the night, under the inspection of the magi-* Homer.



S  strates,



 



NOTES ON THE



strates: durfng the day, whoever pleased was at liberty to go andsatisfy his hunger. The natives of the place affirm, that the earthspontaneously produces all these viapds: this however is whatthey term the table of the Sun." I have given the passageas translated by Mr. Beloe.



Page . Alias it so lofty, (sfc,"] The great height of themountain Atlas is very successfully employed by Proclus in Tim.p. , as an argument for the truth of that Platonic hypothesisconcerning the earth, which we have mentioned in a formernote. The passage in which he employs this argument is asfollows; "It is here requisite to remember the Platonic hypo≠theses concerning the earth. For Plato does not measure itsmagnitude after the same manner as mathematicians; but thinks%hat its interval is much greater, as Socrates asserts in the Phaedo,In whieh dialogue also he fays, that there are many habitableparts similar to the places of our abode. And hence he relates,that an island and continent of this kind existed in the externalpr Atlantic sea. For indeed, if the earth be naturally spherical,it is necessary that it should be such according to its greatest part.But the parts which we inhabit, both internally and externally,exhibit great inequality. In some parts of the earth, therefore,there must be an expanded plain, and an interval extended onhigh. For, according to the faying of Heraclitus, he <wbopa/setthrough a very profound region will arrive at the Atlantic mountain,‚Ä¢whose magnitude is such, according to the relation of the ^Ethiopianhistorians, that it touches the tether, andcajls a shadow of Jive thou≠sand Jladia in extent; for from the ninth hour of the day the fun itconcealed by it, even to his perfect demerfion under the earth. Noris this wonderful: for Athos, a Macedonian mountain, casts ashadow as far as to Lcmnos, which is distant from it sevenhundred stadia. Nor are such particulars as these, which Mar-cellus the √Üthiopic historian mentions, related only concerningthe Atlantic mountain; but Ptolemy also fays that the Lunarmountains are of an immense height; and Aristotle, that Can-"



casua,



 



FIRST VOLUME. 



casus it enlightened by the rays of the fun a third part of thenight after fun-set, and a third part before the rising of the fun.And if any one considers the whole magnitude of the earth,bounded by its elevated parts, he will conclude that it is trulyof a prodigious magnitude, according to the assertion of Plato."I only add, that what Proclus observes here from Ptolemy aboutthe height of the Lunar mountains is contradicted by Mr. Bruce,who fays in his book, on the Source of the Nile, that thesemountains are by no means ef that prodigious altitude whichthey were supposed to be by the ancients. However, for myown part, I prefer Ptolemy's authority to that of Mr. Bruce,notwithstanding the person of Mr. Bruce during his travelswas, as he informs us, by no means despicable; and in additionto this, his circumstances, were affluent, and his connectionspowerful!



Page . / can also mention others, that tvere once men, an Jwere after their death ‚Ä¢worshipped at gods by the Greels."] I havealready abundantly (hewn in a former note, that there is an orderof fouls among men, who from their superior purity, and magna,nimity, and their proximity to beings essentially more excellent,were very properly denominated by the ancients, heroes. Theseelevated souls, too, were justly called by the fame names as thedivinities from which they descended: for the characteristic ofevery divine nature extends itself to the last of things, so as evento leave a vestige of its ineffable prerogatives in the dark and re≠bounding receptacle of matter. Heroes however, though theywere worshipped by the ancients, yet they were neither consi≠dered as gods, nor worshipped as such, by those who paid themno other honours than what were ordained by the Grecian laws,as is evident from Plato's Laws. Pausanias therefore, in the pas.sage before us, feemc, for want of a philosophical acquaintancewith the religion of his country, to confound the divine and hu≠man nature: and it is to passages of this nature that we must;ascribe the general prevalence at present of that most licentiou*



and



 NOTES ON THE



ad ignorant opinion, which asserts all the godi of the ancientsto be nothing more than deified men.



Page . And that I might conjecture his lull, l$c.~\ That,in the heroic age, men abounded of a prodigious stature cannotbe denied, without supposing the whole of the Iliad to be afable:- though, on the other hand, to imagine with the ScotchGrammarian, that there has been a gradual declension of thestature of mankind from the most early periods, and that thehuman species will at last come to nothing, is an opinion tooextravagant and unphilosophical to deserve the labour of confu-tation. The fact is, that the superior strength and size of thecelebrated heroes of antiquity can only be accounted for satis≠factorily, by having recourse to that recondite wisdom of theancients, which was first discoveicd in the colleges of the ./Egyp≠tian priests, and was afterwards delivered Enigmatically by Py≠thagoras, scientifically by Plato, and cnthcaJlicaUy, or according toa diific energy (iiSiaj-'xwf), by his latter disciples. From this mostarcane and sublime wisdom -we learn, that all the parts of theuniverse cannot participate the providence of the gods in a simi≠lar manner, but that some of its parts must enjoy this eternally,and others temporally; some in a primary, and others in a secon≠dary degree. For the universe being a perfect whole, must havea first, a middle, and a last part. But its first parts, as havingthe most excellent subsistence, must always exist according tonature; and its last parts must sometimes subsist according to,and sometimes contrary to nature. Hence the celestial bodies,which are the first parts of the universe, perpetually subsist ac≠cording to nature, both the whole spheres, and the multitudeco-ordinate to these -wholes*; and the only alteration whichthey experience is a mutation of figure, and variation of lightat different periods: but in the sublunary region, while



* For an account of the ‚ñ†wlxks which the universe contains, and whichform one of the most interesting parts of the Platonic philosophy, see myIntroduction to the Timseus of Plato.



the



 



FIRST VOLUME. 



the spheres of each of the elements remain on account of theirsubsistence as wholes, always according to nature, the parts ofthese wholes have sometimes a natural and sometimes an unna≠tural subsistence: for tints alone can \he circle of generationunfold all the variety which it contains.



But the different periods in which these mutations happen,are called by Plato, with great propriety, periods of fertility andfierility: for in these periods a fertility or sterility of men, ani≠mals and plants takes place; so that in fertile periods mankindwill be both more numerous, and upon the whole superior inmental and bodily endowments to the men of a barren period.And a similar reasoning must be extended to animals and plants.This is signified by Plato, though obscurely, in the followingpassage from the eighth book of his Republic: yahiwi pi,



‚Ä¢ttuc^m ¬£tij-¬´(j{ Toy ara.Ha fxein Xfoito, aXha AtSWtlai. awj; o*e rjJi. oustorey <p<Pioi( ryyno>{, ¬´W.a xai a W/aoif ¬£¬´oif <pofa, itj asojtx ^vyrtf n,& ffufMalvr ytyvtlxi, olxv vtfijoo^rai i¬´-ijT)c kvi&w Trsp^&paj avvxwluo'hCja^uCioif fim (faxivsrr.pt>vi, ituilut; ot ivxtltxf. i. e. "It is difficultfor a city so constituted to be moved from its establishment. Butsince every thing which is generated is obnoxious to corruption,neither can a constitution of this kind remain perpetually,but mustbe dissolved. And its dissolution is this: ji fertility and'sterilityof foul and bodies not only takes place in terrene plants, but also in ter≠rene animals, when the revolutions of each of these conjoin the ambitsof their circles; -which are shorter to the shorter-lived, and con≠trary-wife to the contrary."



The so much celebrated heroic age, therefore, was the result ofone of these fertile periods, in which men, transcending theherd of mankind both in practical and intellectual virtue,abounded on the earth. But in consequence of that beautiful pro≠gression of things which takes place throughout the universe,viz. in consequence of multitude every where being suspendedfrom a monad,or uniting cause; and multitude exquisitely allied



to







 NOTES ON THE



to its monad preceding dissimilar multitude, it is necessary thateach of these heroic souls should be the leader of other fouls of aninferior rank, but yet resembling their leader in a high degree.Thus Achilles in the Iliad, who, as we have observed in a formercote, is an heroic foul energizing according to practical virtue,stands at the head of a kindred multitude of souls, who, from theirproximity to. such characters as himself, are dignified with theappellation of heroes. Ajax belonged to this kindred multitude,together with Tidydes, Ulysses, and many others; this multi≠tude at the fame time possessing gradations of excellence, in orderthat its extremity may coalesce with less elevated fouls. It istherefore by no means wonderful, that Ajax possessed such re≠markable strength and magnitude of body, as he belonged tothat class of souls who approximate very near to real heroesamong men.



But a very natural doubt may here arise in the mind of thethinking reader, why √Üneas, who is said to have been born of agoddess, as well as Achilles, and of a goddess of a much higherrank than the mother of Achilles, is represented by Homer asengaged in a bad cause, which he evidently is, by fightingfor the Trojans. I answer, that the doubt may be solved, byreading Homer with that profound attention which his poemsso justly demand. For we mail find, that though he calls √Üneasa hero, as well as Achilles, from his resembling true heroes inmany respects, yet he plainly evinces that his claim to this cha≠racter was not incontrovertible, when he represents Apollo thusspeaking to √Üneas: (Iliad. :o. v. .)



t& as <pztn Aio; xoffi; AippoMiijExyi- aaEf.



i. e. "For they say that you are descended from Venus the, daughter of Jupiter." For here the term they fay plainly indi≠cates that his claim to this honour was ambiguous: but he neveruses an expression of this k-ind when he speaks of Achilles. Iadd, that these periods of fertility and sterility depend on the



different



 



FIRST VOLUME.



different circulations of the heavens: and that this theory solvesat once all that appears so absurd to persons ignorant of truephilosophy in many of the relations of ancient historians: I mean,the accounts they g^ve of animals which no where exist at pre≠sent; and their ascribing properties to such animals as now exist,so different from what they are now found to possess. For itevidently follows, that in fertile periods animals must exist whichare unknown to barren periods; and that all the tribes of ani≠mals must upon the whole be superior in every respect: just as infertile ground, and in fertile seasons, the produce is more abun≠dant, the species of production are more various, and theitqualities superior to what are found in the produce of barrenground, in the barren seasons of the year.



But the following account of human bones of prodigious mag≠nitude which have been discovered, will I doubt not be accept≠able to the reader, in addition to the histories of this kind givenby Paufanias. The author of this account is Phlegon Trallianus;and it is taken from his little treatise, On admirable things; andOn those that have lived to a great age. "Not many years since,in Messene, Apollonius fays, that a large stone vessel was brokethrough violent tempests, and a great inundation of water, andthat a head was washed out of it, three times as large as that ofa man, with two rows of teeth. An inscription informed thosethat were endeavouring to find whose head it was, that itwas the head of Idas: for this was the inscription, lAEsl,i. e. OF IDAS. The Messenians, therefore, at the public costprovided another vessel, and placed in it the remains of the heroin such a manner, that they were more secure than before, aithey perceived that this was the person of whom Homer*lays:



Idas the strongest of the mortal race



That flourish'd then, who for a beauteous nymph



Dar'd with Apollo Phoebus to contend,



And aim his arrows at the radiant king.



* Iliad. . v. .



"la



io NOTES ON THE



"In Dalmatia too, in that which is called the cavern of Diana,many bodies may be seen, whose tiba exceed sixteen cubits.



"But the grammarian Apollonius relates that there was anearthquake during the reign of Tiberius Nero, through whichmany celebrated cities of Asia were entirely destroyed, but whichTiberius afterwards rebuilt at his own expence; for which bene≠fit the Asiatics made a colossal statue of him, and placed it nearthe temple of Venus, which is in the forum of the Romans: andafter this, they placed the statues of the several cities that hadbeen rebuilt. Not a few too of the cities of Sicily sufferedthrough this earthquake, and places near Rhegilfm, togetherwith several of the cities in Pontus. But in those parts in whichthe earth was rent asunder, very large dead bodies were found;the magnitude of which indeed so astonished the inhabitants,that they were unwilling to move them. That the affair how≠ever might be generally known, they sent to Rome one of theteeth of these bodies; and this was more than a foot long. Theambassadors, at the fame time they shewed this to Tiberius, askedhim whether he wished that the hero to whom this tooth belong≠ed should be brought to him. Upon this, Tiberius very pru≠dently thought of a means by which he might neither be deprivedof knowing the dimensions of this body, nor yet be guilty ofthe impiety of robbing the dead. He ordered a celebrated ge≠ometrician, whose name was Pulcrus, and whom he honoured forhis art, to be called, and desired him to make a face in propor≠tion to the fize of that tooth. The geometrician therefore,having calculated from the fize of the tooth the dimensions ofthe face and of the whole body, accomplished the taste imposedon him with great celerity, and brought the face to the Emperor,who, after he had satisfied himself with beholding it, ordered thetooth to be restored to the place from whence it was taken.



"Nor ought we to refuse our assent to this narration, since thereIs a place in Egypt called Liti√¶, in which bodies are to be seen,not less in size than the above-mentioned, and these not buried in



the



 



FIRST VOLUME. 



the earth, but exposed to the view, neither confused nor disturb≠ed, but placed in proper order, so that he who looks at themcan tell, which are the bones of the thighs, legs, -and othermembers. It is not therefore by any means proper to disbelievethese accounts: hut we ought to think that at first, nature beingvery vigorous caused every thing to approach near to the perfec≠tion of the gods* j and that becoming afterwards debilitated, themagnitude of bodies also decreased. I am likewise informed,that at Rhodes there are bones which far surpass in magnitudethe bones of men of the present day. And the same Apolloniuisays, that there is a certain island near Athens, which the Athe≠nians fortified with walls; and that when they were digging thefoundations of these walls, they found a sepulchre of one hundredeubits in length, in which there was a skeleton of the same di≠mensions with the sepulchre, with this inscription : I Maeroseirit,vuho lived five thousand years, am buried in a long island.



"Eumachus, in his description of the earth, says that the Car--thaginians, when they were digging a trench in their own coun≠try, found two skeletons placedfin coffins, one of which wattwenty-three, and the other twenty-four cubits in length.



"And Theopompus Sinopenfis, in hisTreatise on Earthquakes,fays, that a sudden earthquake happening in the CimmerianBosphorus, a certain hill was rent asunder, and bones of a pro≠digious magnitude were thrown out of it: for the length of thewhole skeleton was found to be twenty-four cubits. He adds,that the Barbarians who dwelt about those parti threw thesebones into the lake Maeotis."



Page . The pancratium. ] This was a mode of wrestlingand boxing, in which it was lawful to use any kind of play, inorder to obtain the victory.



Page . Peleui vowed hit hair to the river Spcrchiut.-] Th*



‚Ä¢ This opinion is very natural to a mind unacquainted with the variouscirculations of the heavens.



verses



 NOTES ON THE



verses of Homer alluded to by Pausanias are these, which maybe found in the d book of the Iliad:



Sperchius! whose waves In mazy errours lostDelightful roll along my native coast!To whom my father vow'd at my return,These locks to fall, and hecatombs to burn.



I only add, that the obscure and intricate mode of expression em*ployed by Pausanias in the present passage, and which he so fre≠quently adopts, led me into an error in the translation of it, fromnot recollecting at the time the verses of Homer alluded to. I begthe reader, therefore, to correct the passage as follows: "that Pe-leus vowed the hair of Achilles to the river Sperchius, for his safereturn from Troy."



Page . Mild Jupiter.'] It appears that Jupiter Misubiut,ot mild Jupiter, is the fame with that power called the Damontin the Orphic hymns: for in the hymn to him he is expresslycalled y.u\\yun A.a, mild Jupiter. It appears too, that this deityis the fame with the Janus of the Romans. For in the hymnjust cited there is the following line:



i. e.



<*In thee, the keys of joy and sorrow are carried."



And Janus, it is well known, wasi represented as a porter.Scaliger indeed, in the translation of this line, expressly as≠signs two epithets'to this divinity, which belong only to Janus,L e. Patulcius and Clufius, the power that opens and shuts.



Lxtitix, mxrori, Vatuk'm', Clufiui idem es.



Indeed, that Jupiter is the fame with Janus, is indisputablyclear, from the following verse of a MS. hymn in my possession,of Proclus, which is entitled Tjxwf xoitec, or a common hjmu:



Xais Ixn irfvtraltif fyv apStli' < ‚Ä¢



i. e.



¬´ Grandfather Janus, Jove immortal, hail 



And



FIRST VOLUME. 



And here It may not be improper to observe as a circumstancetruly admirable, that Orpheus, Homer, Plato, and the Chal- ,d√¶an oracles, have unanimously characterized Jupiter by theduad. Thus both Orpheus and Plato call hifo by a two-foldname Jia and the former signifying that he is the cause



through which things subsist; and the latter his vivific power: forhe is the first cause of vivification. Plato too, in the Parmc-nidet, characterizes him by the dialectic epithets.yslmfn^// and dif≠ference. Homer places two urns by his throne. And he is calledby the Chaldscan oracles in leuirnt, twice leyond. The twofaces of Janus, therefore, as he is the fame with the Jupiter ofthe Greeks, admirably correspond with the dual characteristicassigned to that divinity by the most ancient theologists.



I add, that the reader must not be disturbed on finding thatJupiter is called a demon, at this epithet is only given to himin the way of analogy. For, as it is the employment of essentiald√¶mons to attend on the gods, and proximately preside overinferior natures; so each subordinate order of gods, from fol≠lowing the operations of its proximate superior order, and pre≠siding over subject natures, may be called analogically, d√¶-moniacul with respect to that order. It is in this fenseof the word that Plato, in the Tim√¶us, calls the sublunarygods dtmnns in one place, aud in anothergods of gnds; and thatin the Banquet, he calls Love a mighty d√¶mon, and in the Phce-drus a god. But not only gods were called d√¶mons by ancienttheologists, but intellects, foul;;, d√¶mons, and even men werecalled gods by them. Each, however, was thus denominated ina different respect. For inlelleSs were called gods according tounion ; fouls, according to participation i demons, according to cen≠tal}; and men, according to similitude; while, in the mean time,such as are properly gods were assigned this appellation essentially.The observation of these diltiiittions will enable the philosophicreader to solve many apparent inconsistencies in the writings ofancient theologists, and convince him that the ancients believed



Vol. III. T ia



+ NOTES ON THE



in beings superior to the d√¶moniacal order. By the power there≠fore calli'd the s),emon, which so often occurs in Pausanias, wemust understand Jupiter.



Page . But he that has h:cn initiated in th? Eleusinian mys≠teries, SsV.] From the present passive, in conjunction with iomeother authorities which I shall adduce, we may collect no con≠temptible argument in favour ot' the opinion, thai the Orphichymns which exist at present were the very lumns which wereused in the Eleusinian mysteries. "For (fays Pa;.tan:as) it is notlawful to alcribe the invention of beans to Ceres; and he that hasbeen initiated in the Eleusinian mysi cries, or has read the poemscalled Crphic, will kiiow wiiat I mean." Now Porphyry DeAbftintntia, lib , informs us, that kans were forbidden in theEleusinian mysteries*; and in the Orphic hymn to Earth, thefacrificer is oiticied to fumigate from every kind of feed, exceptbeans and aromatic:. Again, Suidas informs; us, that tixAimeans a mystic sacrifice, the greatest and most venerable of all others,Surta jxwi-¬ªipia;¬ªis, n ftiytrv *} rtfuAfa. And Proclus, whenever hespeaks of the Eleusinian mysteries, calls them the most holy tchtai,ayiulaiau TtAilsif. Agrteably to this, the Orphic hymns arecalled in the Thryllitian manuscript tAiIow: and Scaliger justlyobserves, that they contain nothing but such invocations aswere used in mysteries. Besides, many of the hymns are expresslythus called by the author of them. Thus the conclusion of thehymn to Protogonns invokes that deity to be present at "theholy telcte" fj ti*i¬´i¬ª ≈ìyiai: of the hymn to the stars, to be pre≠sent "at the very learned labours of the illustriously-holy telcte:



EaSiT ivs luilfou T¬´Xi>!{ WoV..iVot-a{ a.x¬´iir.



And in the conclusion of the hymn to Latona,the sacrifice is calledan all-divine telete. Bii>" <¬´> -utSiun TiXtii>, as likewise in that



xm ipeflim xou xvajitn, gota; ti xai fxtXut, p. jjj. Edit. Trajecf In Plat. Theol. p. , et in MS. Comment, in Alcibiad.



of



FIRST VOLUME.



of the hymn to Amphietus Bacchus. And in short, the greaterpart of the hymns will be found to-have either the word teletein them; or to invoke the respective divinities to bless the mystics,or initiated persons. Thus the conclusion of the hymn to Hea≠ven entreats that divinity to confer a blessed life on a recentmystic:



KXtiS' aBuftn \*%t onat pupi neQ/xUti‚Äî



the conclusion of the hymn to the Sun, "to hestoiv a pleasantlife on the mystics:" and in a similar manner most of the rest.



Farther still, Demosthenes, in his first Oration against Arifto-giton, has the following remarkable passage: xat tut swrapouliilo*Kai B-tfHHit iont, tit o raf aywlal*? i)/iiy riXilix; xala$n¬£ai Offni( iraf¬ª'Toy tow Ai¬ª{ Bfunt Qtjri KaStiftmt, watla tx rut a&ftnrut ipopav. i. e.*' Let us reverence inexorable and venerable Justice, who Or≠pheus our instructor in the most holy teletai, fays, is seated by thethrone of Jupiter, and inspects all the affairs of men." HereDemssthenes you fee calls the mysteries most holy, as well as Pro-clus: and I think we may conclude with the greatest confidencefrom all that has been said, that he alluded to the hymn to Justice,which is among the Orphic hymns, and to these very lines:



O/xucc Aix¬ª; piKiru vrct^isS^xio;, *y\cu>uQQ$w*HkJ fyrni ataxies ftfi p¬∞¬ªo¬ª ¬ªfo¬ª t¬£n, j



i. e". "I sing the all-feeing eye of splendid Justice, who sits bythe throne of king Jupiter, and from her celestial abode beholdsthe life of mortal men."



Page . Homer calls these daughters, &c.~\ Paufanias doubt≠less alludes to Homer's hymn to Ceres: but these names are notto be found in the hymn at present, owing to an unfortunatechasm in a part of the hymn where they were mentioned.



Page . The poet Pamphus.~\ Pamphus was an Atheniancontemporary with Linus, and is said to have composed poemsand hymns prior to Homer.



T  Page



 NOTES ON THE



Page . The twelve gods, as they are called.] These twelvedivinities are, Jupiter, Neptune, Vulcan, Vesta, Minerva, Mars,Ceres, Juno, Diana, Mercury, Venus, Apollo. The first triadof these gods is demiurgic; the second, defensive; the third, vi-vific; and the fourth, elevating and harmonic. These divinitiesaccording to their first subsistence, considered as characterized bythe number twelve, form that order of gods which is called ar¬ª-?.vrof, or liberated, by the Chald√¶an theologists, but uir;foip¬´Miof,y¬´-percelejlial, by the Greeks, because it is immediately situated abovethe mundane gods. But these gods are received from the libe≠rated order into the world. Hence, as Sallust observes in his.elegant little work, On the Gods and the World*: "Of thesegods, some are the causes of the world's existence; othersanimate the world; others again harmonize it, thus composedfrom different natures; and others lastly guard and preserve itwhen harmonically arranged." He adds: "The truth of thismay be seen in statues as in √¶nigmas. For Apollo harmonizes thelyre, Pallas is invested with arms, and Venus is naked; sinceharmony generates beauty, and beauty is not concealed in objectsof sensible inspection. But since these gods primarily possess theworld, it is necessary to consider the other gods as subsisting inthese; as Bacchus in Jupiter, √Üsculapius in Apollo, and theGraces in Venus. We may likewise behold the orbs with whichthey are connected; viz. Vesta with earth, Neptune with water,Juno with air, and Vulcan with fire. But the six superipr godswe denominate from general custom ; for we assume Apollo andDiana for the fun and moon; but we attribute the orb of Satur nto Ceres, sether to Pallas; and we assert that heaven is commonto them all."



Page . Bacchus Ny<~Jii:s.~] So called, because his myste≠ries were celebrated by night.



Page . Venus Vertkornia.~\ Thus denominated, accord≠ing to Gyraldus, because (he turns the heart to chastity. Vid.Valer. Maxim, lib. viii.



* Can. vi.



Page



 



FIRST VOLUME.



Page . The Orach of Night."] The following mystic par≠ticulars respecting the Oracle of Night arc given us by Proclus,in Tim. p. , and p. . "The artificer of the universe, priorto his whole fabrication, is said to have betaken himself to theOracle of Night, to have been there filled with divine concep≠tions, to have received the principles of fabrication, and (if itbe lawful so to speak) to have solved all his doubts. Night toocalls upon the father Jupiter to undertake the fabrication of theuniverse: and Jupiter is said by the theologist (Orpheus) to havethus addressed Night:



M≈ìi* Sf¬´y xnct&n, Nb¬£ apfifolt, ?U( teuit ppaj-i;;;



i. e.



O Nurse, supreme of all the powers divine,Immortal Night! how with unconquer'd mindMust I the source of the immortals fix?



And how will all things but as one subsist, *Yet each its nature separate preserve?



To which interrogations the goddess thus replies:



AiSipi sraila Tripi^a^aiar \sdei' TV tfht fAta-ovOujavoy, sy <t; ti yeuat ami/Uct/ iy ^aXaacray,Ei ti Tiifia sravias, t¬ª't' Ufxm triQctnUt,



I. e.



All things receive inclos'd on ev'ry side,



In xther's wide, ineffable embrace:



Then, in the midst of √¶ther place the heav'n.



In which let earth of infinite extent,



The sea, and stars the crown of heav'n, be sixr.



*' And Jupiter is instructed by Night in all the subsequentmundane fabrication: but after she has laid down rules respectingaB other productions, she adds:



T $ Au¬´p



 NOTES ON THE



i. e.



But when your pow'r around the whole has spreadA strong coercive bond, a golden chainSuspend from sether."



Thus far Proclus. But the first: subsistence of the goddesrNight is at the summit of that divine order, which is called bythe Chald√¶an theologists mfa kJ WEpoj, intelligible and at the sametune intelleSual. She is besides the mother of the gods, who arenourished with intelligible food from the contemplation of herdivinity: and on this account (he is called the nurse of thegods. Proclus therefore, in the above passages, speaks of Nightaccording to this her first subsistence: but in the passage beforeus of Pausanias, we must consider this goddess according to hermundane subsistence. I only add, that the Chald√¶an doctrineof other purer worlds above the inerratic sphere seems, from theOrphic verses just; cited, to have been known to and embraced byOrpheus. For the Chald√¶an theologists, as I have proved in myNotes on the Cratylus of Plato, believed, that there were sevencorporeal worlds: one empyrean, three ethereal, and three ma≠terial; which last three consist of the inerratic sphere, the planet≠ary spheres, and the sublunary region. And in one of the abovecited Orphic verses, Jupiter is ordered to receive all things in≠closed in √¶ther; plainly indicating that there is something ethe≠real beyond the sensible heavens.



Page . Gods that are called ProdromeanJ\ i. e. dnteeejsors:for, as among the genera superior to mankind some are the an-tecessors of the gods; in like manner certain subordinate order*of gods may be called the fore-runners of superior orders, con≠sidered as preparing, Jby their light, natures inferior to the divinefor the reception of illumination from a prior order of gods. Al-cathous, therefore, very properly sacrificed to these gods beforehe began to raise the wall of the tower.



- . Page



 



FIRST VOLUME. j



Page . Upon ‚Ä¢which they say Apollo laid hit harp."] As thecharacteristics of all the divine orders are participated by the lastof things, hence a vestige of supernal light is not only visible inplants, but in particular stones. Thus, as Proclus observes inhis small treatise Dc Magia, "the sun-stone by its golden rayaimitates those of the sun; but the stone called the eye of heaven,or of the sun, has a figure similar to the pupil of an eye, and aray shines from the middle of the pupil. Thus too the lunartysone, which has a figure similar to the moon when horned, by acertain change of itself, follows the lunar motion. And the stonecalled Iselioselenus, i. e. of the fun and moon, imitates after a man≠ner the congress of those luminaries, which it images by its co≠lour." This being the cafe, it is by no means wonderful, thatthere should be certain stones which possess a debile vestige ofthe divine harmony of Apollo: and the stone mentioned by Pau-sanias, from its being one of this kind, may have occasioned thefabulous report, that Apollo laid his harp on it.



Page  a. An heroic monument of Ino.~\ By Ino the ancientssignified symbolically the sublunary element water, as the follow≠ing passage from the MS. Commentary of Olympiodorus on thePh√¶do evinces:  xaSpof p'.i  nrori?.ii>¬´; >.a?uo; u; iwnxrutxof, ito xeuaffiojia (Tt/eriTy Biu, xou rmtizlafuv Za.K)(f>f wains. Tio-o-apa it re*Xu*ctoivmccitcL irwouo-i, atptto (*iv to CTp, ctyxvtt it t¬ª¬ª yrn, tiourvcutra t¬´oixiix ynvipala, ua it to :aa , iiu\io; ovea,, j¬£ atloioi) it Ton atfet, )Xompi. i. e. ** Cadmus is the sublunary world, as being Diony-siacal, on which account Harmony is united to the god, and asbeing the father of the four Bacchuses. But they make the souselements to be Dionysiacal; viz. firetobe Semele; earth, Agave,tearing in pieces her own offspring; -water, Ino; and lastly air,Aulonoe."



Page . Hefiod in his catalogue of viomtn, ¬£sV.] The mean≠ing of Hcsiod, in the passage alluded to by Pausauiasin his Cata≠logue of Women (which work is unfortunately loit^, is this, asit appears to me: Iphigenia after her death became united with



T  Hecate,



 



o NOTES ON THE



Hecate, from whom she originally descended; and on this accountmight be said to be changed into Hecate, on account of whollysubsisting through union, according to the characteristic of thatgoddess. I only add, that according to Orpheus, as we are in≠formed by Proclus on the Cratylus, there is a great union betweenDiana, the mundane Hecate, and Proserpine; and that Orpheuscalls Diana, Hecate.



Page. . Herodotus <writes.~\ In Melpom. p. . edit. Basil.



Page . Hecaerge and Ops.'] These are two names of Diana,the former alluding to the emission of the moon's rays, and sig≠nifying far-darting; and the latter alluding to the beauty ofDiana's countenance: for Opts, according to Callimachus, in hishymn to this goddess, signifies <i beautiful countenance:



Pajje . Imeros and sJpdhos.] According to Plato in theCratylus, the former of these words signifies amaiorial desire of apresent oljeil, and the latter, desire of an absent oljcB.



Page . Apollo Tnlelaris.~] i. e. Apollo, the guardian of thecity: for every city, as is well known, according to the ancienttheology, has its guardian deity. But we learn from Olympi-odorus in Comment. MS. in Platonis Alcibiadem, that of themundane gods from v> hich bodies alone are suspended, some arecelestial t pno;, others elhrrial or JL ry aiS.pioi five vvfui, othersaerial mpici, others aquatic mvp,i, others terrestrial ^cnoi, andothers fubtartarcan vaS\u^aet¬ª. But that among the tcrre/lrial,some preside over climeles, or arc climutarcibic x^t^alctf^ai, othersare guardians of cities croXiot^oi, and others lastly are toe guar≠dians of houses xaoix>#¬ªi. Let the re?der too carefully remem≠ber, that these allotments of the divinities arc immutable; viz.that though parts of the earth may become at times unfit toreceive divine influence, through subsisting contrary to nature, asI have observed in a former note, yet the beneficent illumi≠nations of the gods continue invariably the fame.



Page



 



FIRST V OLUMg.



Pxige . And Latona."]  she following admirable accountof Latona, from the MSS. ¬£c holla of Proclus on the Cratylus,cannot fall of being highly a jceptsbje to the Platonic reader."Latona is a vivlfic fountain c ompreberded in Ceres: andhence,according to ihc Grecian rites, fh-is wcrjl .fpcd as tlx fame withCeres, these rites evincing by this, the union of the goddesses.Eut this goddess enrta the win lie of vivisic light, ilhimtuating theintellectual essences of the g< ;ds, and the orders of fouls: andlastly, (he illuminates the v,!*jI e ft. risible heaven, generating mun≠dane light, and establishing tlu cause of this light in her offspring,Apollo and Diana; and ca"i js all things to glitter with intellec≠tual and vivific light. S!i¬´ imparts likewise to fouls the con≠summation of virtue, and an illumination which leads them,back to the intellectual pe t of their father*, hastily withdraw≠ing them from the windin; - paths of matter's-, the entangle≠ments of vice, and the ro' in I ness of the passage over the sea ofgeneration. It appears to me indeed, that thcologifts consider≠ing this, denominated her d Latona, on account of her ex≠tending to foals fmootbnefi of manners, a voluntary life, anddivine gentleness and cafe. I '>r to such as raise themselves toher divinity, (he imparts an iru ssable energy, a blameless life,gentleness of manners, serenit y, and intellectual tranquillity.Whether therefore (lie is called. Leto, from a voluntary life; forXv signifies vo Gmlopai I um it'll 'tig} or from to Jkiif, the smooth,her name will perfectly evince th ough both these, the powerswhich (lie possefils. For the con ipellc d energies of the foul takeplace through material rougline¬£ >, ai d the obliquity of a life ingeneration diminishes the foulvoluntary lift. But an ascentto the gods imparts a smooth anc gentle, instead of a hard andrough, and a voluntary, instead < >f a compelled life.



Why then is it necessary to cal , as fume do, Latona matter,as capable of being eaiily turned, and subsisting as an express* i. e. Jupiter.



f Of these winding paths the Dedi 'lean labyrinth is nn imsjr.



resemblance



 







a NOTES ON.THE



resemblance os all forms, like a ] tnirror receiving the representa≠tions f all things; and to fay t hat she is the cause of oblivionto those that look into her? Wh y is it necessary to call Apolloharmony, as subsisting from Lato na and Jupiter? For thus thegod would be inseparable from mi ;tter, and not the cause of theharmony in the universe. It is be tter therefore to fay, that La-tona is not the receptacle of Apol 'lo, but that she is the motherand fountain of all vivific light, which preserves all things byheat: but that Apollo, who is a sej ">arate divinity, is the supplierof all harmonic life, and of all those mundane reasons by whichthe universe is indissolubly bound. But you may fay that So≠crates derives her name from Lethe,  because she peculiarly causesin fouls an oblivion of evils,"and of t he roughness and storms ingeneration; of which while the foul rt tains the memory, she can≠not possibly establish herself in inu j\L giblee: for memory, saysPlotinus, leads to the object of me moi y. And as Mntmofyneexcites the memory of intelligibles, so Latona imparts an oblivionof material concerns."



Page . Diana the Saviour.,] The epithet of the Saviour, asmay be inferred from Proclus on' the Cratyhis, was given by theancients to all the celestial gods in common. For, speaking of theChristians of his time, he obsertn ;s: "Men of the present daydo not believe that the fun and n ioon are divinities, nor do theyworship the other celestial natu -es, who are our Saviours andgovernours, leading b:.ck immor tal fouls, and being those thatfabricate and give subsistence to > nortal souls*. I should how≠ever say, that men of this kind.. , who dare to entertain such anirrational opinion respecting the celestial gods, arc hastening toTartarus, and to the most ir.cf Table and inordinate part of theuniverse."



Page . Neptune contended ‚Ä¢ with the Sun."] There are twoways of considering the battles ‚Ä¢ of the gods, which are so muchcelebrated in fable; and each of these solves all the apparent



* i. e. to the fouls of brutes.



absurdity



FIRST VOLUME. 



absurdity in which such fables are involved. The first of theseu from considering the orderly ettfiinSion in the progression of allthe divine genera from their ineffable source. I mean that someare the causes of union, and others ofseparation to things posterior;that some Impart a generating power, and others an undejihdpurity-to subordinate natures; and that some impart a good, separatefrom the nature of its recipient, but others such a 'good as isconsubsistent with its receptacle. Now this distinction, andseeming opposition, in divine natures, was called by ancient my-thologists contention and war. I fay seeming opposition: forall divine natures subsist in the most perfect friendship and pro≠found union with each other; and at the same time that the es≠sence and energy of each are perfectly distinct, they are either allin all, which is the case with the divine unities, or all in each,which is the cafe with forms or ideas.



But the second mode of considering the battles of the gods,is by regarding their progressions into the universe; in conse≠quence of which the last orders dependent on the gods, as theyare produced by a long interval from the first causes, are con≠tiguous to the subjects of their government, and adhere to mat≠ter, contract contrariety and all-various division, and, by theirproximate care of mortal concerns, are obnoxious to desires andpassions. Lastly, on account of their great sympathy with mor≠tal concerns, and the partial providence which they exert fortheir welfare, they actually war with each other. But as eventhe last orders which perpetually follow the gods, preserve theproperties of their leaders, though in a partial and manifold man≠ner, hence they were very properly called, by the ancients, bythe names of the gods their respective leaders. Thus for in≠stance, not only the deity who illuminates all things with super≠mundane light, and who sits with Jupiter and the celestial gods,was called Apollo, but this name was given to the d√¶mon whowas the guardian of Hector. This last mode indeed of consider≠ing battles among the gods, is the key, in the hands of the skil≠ful,



NOTES ON THE



sul, to the secret meaning of much of the mythology id the Iliad,and shews us how the relation here given by Pausanias is to beunderstood. For it means, that certain dxmoniacal powers, whorank among the kst attendants of the gods Neptune and theSun, once contended with each other about the land of Corinth;and that Btiareus, a d√¶mon belonging to the deity of that name,acted as a mediator between them. I only add farther, thatthese demons, who are thus proximate to the subjects of theirgovernment, and who are influenced by paflions like men, arenot essentially d√¶mons, though they are the perpetual attendantsof the gods; but they are d√¶mons only cxca>,t according lohabitude, proximity, and alliance. For between essential d√¶mons,who are the ecn/lant attendants of the gods, and men who areonly sometimes damons according to habitude, and sometimes atten≠dants of the gods, it is necessary there should be an order ofbeings, who are always d√¶mons according to habitude, and al≠ways the attendants of the gods..



Page .. But there are three Jlatves of Jupiter, fee.] It ap≠pears to me highly probable, that the three Jupiters, mentionedin tliis place by Pausanias, are those three brother deities, theoffspring of Saturn, between whom, according to Homer, theuniverse is divided; or, in other words, that they are Jupiter,Neptune, and Pluto. For the second of these itatues, fays Pau≠sanias, is called terrcjlrial Jupiter, which is an epithet of Pluto,as is evident from the Orphic hymn to that deity; and fromHomer, as cited by Pausanias, p.  ; and Neptune, in the Or≠phic hymn to Equity, is called marine Jupiter, nrotlioc maXt^Zir;.Put that the reader may fee the processions and offices of thesethree demiurgic gods, who are supermundane deities accordingto their first subsistence, I shall present him with the followingtranslation from Proclus in Theol. Plat. p. .



" hese ruling gods replenish the apparent order of things inconjunction with the mundane gods; and distribute whole parts¬ªnder the moon, in a manner different from their government in



FIRST VOLUME. 



the heavens: but they every where energize according to a pa≠ternal and demiurgic mode, unfolding the one fabrication of theuniverse, and accommodating it to parts. But their allotmentand distribution are first according to the whole universe: and oneof these (Jupiter) produces the essences of things; but the second(Neptune), lives and generations; and the third (Pluto) admi≠nisters the divisions of forms. And one of these establishes in theone demiurgus of the world every thing proceeding from thence;but the other evocates all things into progression: and the third,converts all things to himself. But their second distribution isinto the parts of the universe. For the first of these gods governsthe inerratic sphere, and its revolution. But the second presidesover the planetary spheres, and perfects their multiform, effica≠cious, and prolific motions. And the last' of these gods governsthe sublunary region, and perfects intellectually the terrestrialworld. But in the third place, we may contemplate these threedemiurgic progressions in that which is generated. Jupiter there≠fore governs the summit of generated natures, and the sphere offire and air: but Neptune excites with an all-various motion theextremely-mutable elements, and is the inspector and guardian ofever)- humid essence subsisting in air and water : and Pluto admi≠nisters by his providence the earth, and all which it contains; andon this account he is called Terrestrial "Jupiter.



"In the fourth place, with respect to the whole of generation,Jupiter is allotted the most exalted places, in which, as Sorratesobserves in the Ph√¶do, the regions detUned to blessed fouls arecontained ; because they live stparatc from gem ration, under thegovernment of Jove : but Neptune governs hollow places and ta≠verns, in which generation, motion and concussions subsist; onwhich account he is called the carthJLaling god: nr,d Pluto go≠verns places under the earth, the various streams of water, Tar≠tarus, and the places in which fouls are judged. Hence the foulswhich have not yet proceeded into generation, but abide in theintelligible pluce, are suit! to be of the order os Jupiter: but such



M



NOTES ON THE



such as lire in generation are said to be placed under Neptune.And those which after generation are purified and punished, andeither wander under the earth for a thousand years, or again re≠turn to their principle, are said to live under Pluto. In the fifthplace, the distributions of these gods are divided according to thecentres of the universe. For Jupiter possesses the oriental centre,as being allotted an order correspondent to that of fire: but Nep≠tune obtains the middle centre, which corresponds to a vivific na≠ture, and through which generation enjoys celestial natures: andPluto obtains the western centre ; since the west is allied to earth,because it is nocturnal, and the cause of obscurity and darkness.For shade proceeds from the earth, and earth is the privation oflight from west to east. Lastly, according to every division of theuniverse, such natures as arefirst, and obtain the principality, belongto Jove; such as are middle correspond to the kingdom of Neptune;aud such ai are last belong to the empire os Pluto."'



Page . Mercury in a fitting posture, and by thefide of him aram.~] The reason why Mercury was represented by the ancientswith a ram, depends on the intimate alliance of this god with Mi≠nerva, who, as we are informed by Proclus on the Tim√¶us, pre≠sides over that celestial constellation called the ram, and fromthence imparts a motive power which governs the universe. Butthe agreement of Minerva with Mercury will be obvious fromconsidering that this goddess, as we have before observed, extendsthe whole of intelb.ilual light, and that Mercury is the source ofthe reasoning power. Hence the ancients used to render the statuesof both these divinities one, by joining them together: and astatue of this kind they called f.;nai¬ªi), Hermathena, or Mercury-Minerva. These Hermathena: are mentioned by Cicero in hisbooks De Inventione. I only add, that the verses of Homer citedby Pausanias may be sound Iliad . v. .



Page . Minerva Chalinitii.] i. e. the Bridler. uPa^e . I/is.] Isis is the fame with Minerva, according tothe √Ügyptians, as we are informed by Plutarch, in his treatise of



 LIfi¬ª



 



FIRST VOLUME. 



Isis and Osiris. Proclus too in Tim. pu *. fays that according tothe √Ü-yptian historians, there was the following inscription oilthe statue of Minerva, in the adytum of the temple: tym nfu miTo TtyoKif, Kj ot, k) mfun)' k| rot tfjuit ?rtirV.v ot-^iic ¬ª¬ª flnjxo; arixa-o¬ª xatfiroi itucc* n'.ior t^!¬ªiTo. i. e. " I am every thing



THAT HAS BEEN, THAT IS, AND THAT SHALL BE; AND NOMORTAL HAS EVER VET BEEN ABLE TO WITHDRAW MY VEIL.THE FRTJIT WHICH I HAVF BROUGHT FORTH IS THE SUN."‚Äî



It is remarkable that this inscription, as far as to the first period,is cited by Plutarch in his above-mentioned treatise ; but I knowof no author except Proclua who has cited the latter part, "thefruit which I have brought forth is the fun;" nor has this import≠ant addition been noticed by any modern writer that I am ac≠quainted with, owing doubtless to the want of a copious index tothese invaluable commentaries ot Proclus.



As Ifis therefore is Minerva, and as the veil of this goddess, asI have observed in a former note, is an emblem of Nature, whichproceeds from those intellectual vital powers contained in the es≠sence of Minerva, we may perceive the reason why the Arriians,√Üthiopians and √Ügyptiaus called Nature (as we are informed byApuleius) Ifis. Likewise since the moon, as we learn from Pro≠clus, is the auiWion ayafyia tr,% (fveit*;, the fe/f-i't/ive image of Na≠ture, we may fee why Nature was called by the Cretans, accordingto Apuleius in the tame place, Diana. And in short, as Minervawas justly called by the ancients xoji/f n t¬´¬ª Si¬ª>¬ª, the summit of thegods, and is therefore their source in conjunction with her fatherJupittr, we may at one view see the propriety of her being calledby the names of so many other goddesses, in the following sublimepassage from the Metamorphoses of Apuleius : for, as every causeis that primarily which its estect is secondarily, Minerva is in acertain respect the same with all the divinities that proceed iromher, when they arc considered according to their causal subsistencein her essence.



The divinity of the moon, then, thus addresses the metamor.



phosed



NOTES ON THE



phosed Apulcius: En adsurm tin's commota, Luci, precibus, rtf-mm Natura parens, elemtntorum omnium domina, feculorumprogenies initialia, summa. numinum, regina Manium, primac√¶litum, Deoru.-n Dearumque facies uniformis: qu√¶ <:x\i lumi-nofoculmina, marls fulubri.i Samina, inferorum deplorata silentianutibus meis disoenso: cnjus mimcn unicum, multiformi specie,ritu vario, nomine multijugo totus veneratur orbis. Me primi-gmii Phryges PefTinurjticarn nominant Dcum matrem. HiricAutechthenes Attici Cecropiam Minervam; iliinc fiuctuantesCyprii P.iphiam Vencrem: Cretes fagiu'feri Di&ynnam Uia-nam; Siculi trilingues Stygiam Profcrpinam; Eleusinii vetus-tam Deam Ccrcrem: Junonem alii, allii Be'.lonam, alii Hecatcn,Rhamnusiam alii. , Et qui nascent)s del Solis inchoantibus radiisustrantur, √Ürhiopes, Arriique, priscaqi e doctrina pollentes√Ügyptii c√¶remoniis me prerfus propriis pcrcolcntis appellantvero nomine re^inam Isidem. That is, "Behold, Lucius,moved with thy supplications I am present ; I, who am Nature,the parent cs things, queen of all the elements, initial progenitorof ages, die highest of divinities, queen of departed spirits, thestril of the celeiiials, and the uniform appearance of gods andgoddesses: who rule by my nod the luminous height of the hea≠vens, the saiu'pi iovisbreez.es of the sea, and the deplorable silencesof the infernal regions; and whose divinity, in itself but one, isvenerated by all the earth, according to a multiform shape, va≠rious rites, and different appellations.‚ÄîHence, the primitivePhrygians call me Pesfinuntica, the mother of the gods; thenative Athenians, Cccropian IV'inerva; the floating Cyprians,‚Ä¢Paphian Venus; the arrow bearing Cretans, Dictynnian Dia≠na; the three-tongued Sicilian*,. Stygian Proserpine; and theinhab'tants of Eiculrs, the ancient goddess Ceres. Some againhave invoked me as Juno, others as Belluna, others as Hecate,and others as Rhamnuiia: and those who are enlightened bythe emerging rays of the riling fun, the ./Ethiopians, Arriians,and ./Egyptians, powerful in ancient learning, who reverence my



divinity



FIRST VOLUME.



divinity with ceremonies peisectly proper, call me by a true ap≠pellation qiueri lsi¬ª."



Page . S.v This divinity, aswe leani from Plutarch



in his treatise of llis md Osuis, and Porphyry on Oracles as citedby Euscbius,  the same with the Fluto m¬£ the Greeks.



Page . √Üg':i:a the J^ugiur if Jf.fus'iuat rtivi/iu!ly Ju≠piter."] What are we to understand by this relation ?  i.ut thiswas once actually the cafe? But to suppose this would bt absurdin the extr eme. Ac all such relations therefore are very far frombeing literally ti ue, we should consider them as fables in whichsome mysterious meaning is involved ;‚Äîa moaning which fromits sublime nature ought to be concealed froin the vulgar, as theireyes are too weak to sustain the splendours of the highest truths.By ravishment and adultery then between divine and human na≠tures, ancient theologilts meant to insinuate that communicationof energy between the two which we have taken notice of in aformer note, in which we shewed how heroes may be laid to herthe sons of go'Js :wd goddesses. But as this communication ofenergy takes plate through angels, d√¶mons, and essential heroesks mediums, he:;ce the Jupiter mentioned in this fable must beconsidered as a '"xmon'ccal power of the scr-ies of Jupiter, whoby giving perfection to the natural life of √Ügina, and removingevery thing which would be an hnp.ediruent to the feetus in hepwomb, was said to have ravished her.



Page . Sifypbet.] The following beautiful passage - fromthe MSS. Scholia of OKmpicrlorus on the Gorgias of Plato fullyunfolds the meaning cf the fable refpectingthe punistuncut of Si≠syphus. For the original of this pafl'age  refer the reader to myDissertation on thelv'Iysteries, p. . "Ulysses,''Jays he, "de≠scending into .Hades, saw among others Sisyphus, and Ticyus andTantalus ; and Tityus he. law lying on the earrii, and a vj turedevouring his liver; the. liver liquifying that he lived solelyaccording to the deiiderative p<jJtof hi*nature, and through *hiswas indeed internally prudent; but earth signifying the terrestrial



Vol. III. U condition



joo NOTES ON THfi



condition of his prudence. But Sisyphus, living under the do*minion of ambition and anger, was employed in continually roll≠ing a stone up an eminence, because it perpetually descended‚Ä¢gain; its descent implying the vicious government of himself;and his rolling the stone, the hard, refractory, and as it were re≠bounding condition of his life. And lastly he saw Tantalus ex≠tended by the side of a lake, and that there ¬´u a tree beforehim, with abundance of fruit on its branches, which he desiredto gather, but it vanished from his view; and this indeed indi≠cates that he lived under the dominion of the phantasy: but hishanging over the lake, and in vain attempting to drink, impliesthe elusive, humid, and rapidly-gliding condition of such a life."



Page . Homer however refers them to a more illustrious ori-jtn.~] For according to Homer, Zethus and Amphion were theoffspring of Jupiter, as is evident from the following lines fromthe Odyssey, book xi. v. .



"There mov'd Aotiope with haughty charms,* Who bless'd th' almighty thund'rer in her arms:"Hence sprung Amphion, henee brave Zethus came,"Founders of Thebes and men of mighty name."



Pope.



Page . Homer fays.~\ Iliad Z. v. . The translator ofthese verses is Mr. Pope.



Page  . ¬£>uiiiquertium.'] The five principal exercises in theOlympic games, vi*. hulling the quoit, running, leaping, hurl≠ing the dart, and wrestling. The Romans added to these swim*ming and riding.



Page  ?j. After Apollo and Diana had slain the serpent Py≠thon.] Olympiodorus in Comment. MS. in Ph√¶donem observe!concerning Python, √Üchidna, and Typhon, as follows: .‚Ä¢ utt Tv$m me trarreise; rut vvoyttm miuftorruir, xai viarut, xai rutaX/.uy fit^i.tit ‚Ç¨t<Ut> ximifivc anus, n h ai^iJ¬ª¬´ ripv^ia; aiTt¬ª kmjwXc-fwi f oytxtn ti xat cAoyut iJ'VX*"* ^" ra f*'¬ª ¬ª¬ª* t¬´ ii



TRST VOLUME. 



That is, " Typhon is the cause of the violent motion of all-varioussubterranean vapours and waters, and the other elements. But√Üchidna is an avenging cause, and the punisher of rational andirrational souls; on which account her upper parts are those of avirgin, and her lower parts resemble those of a serpent. AndPython is the guardian of the whole of prophetic exhalation; or,we may fay with greater propriety, that he is the cause of the dis≠order and obstruction about exhalations of this kind." As theprophetic power therefore proceeds originally from Apollo, theopposition of energy between Apollo and Python, and the domi-nion of that of the former over that of the latter, gave rife to thefable mentioned in this place by Paufanias. Diana too may besaid to have assisted Apollo in slaying Python, in consequence ofthe wonderful union between these two divinities.



Page isi t. For Hesiodfays'] In hit Works and Days, lib. i.v. .



Page . Mercury Forenfis.~\ Mercury was thus denomi≠nated as presiding over affairs of law: and the propriety of thisappellation will be evident from considering that Mercury is thesource of gymnastic, music, and reasoning; that reasoning is an intcl-IcBual operation, and that law, as Plato (De Legibus) beauti≠fully observes, is nv itetfu-n, the distribution os intellect. For thefake of the liberal reader, I (hall further observe concerning Mer¬´cury, that he is the source os invention: and hence he is said to bethe son of Maia; because search, which is implied by Maia, leadsinvention into light. He bestows too mathests on fouls, by un≠folding the will of his father Jupiter; and this he accomplices atthe angel or messenger of Jupiter. Proclus in MS. Comment. .in Aleibiad. observes, "that be is the inspective guardian ofgymnastic exercises; and hence hermtc, or carved statuts of Mer≠cury, were placed in the Pal√¶stra: of music, and hence he is ho≠noured as the lyrist Avjxzwc among the celestial constellations: andof discipRnts, because the invention of geometry, reasoning and



U z discourse



Q NOTES ON THE



discourse is referred to tliis god. He presides therefore over everyspecies of erudition, leading us to an intelligible essence from thismortal abode, governing the d'sserent herds of fouls, and dis≠persing the sleep ;'.nd oblivion with which they are oppiessed. Heis likewise the supplier of recollection, the end of which is a ge≠nuine intellectual apprehension of divine natures."



After tliis he observes that the different r.ges of our life on theearth correspond to the order of the universe: "For our firstage (says he) partakes in an eminent degree of the lunar ope≠rations; as we then live according to a nutritive and natural. power. But our second age participates of Mercurial preroga≠tives; because we then apply ourselves to letters, music and wrest≠ling. The third age is governed by Venus; because then we be≠gin to produce seed, and the geneiative powers of nature arc putin motion. The fourth age is solar; for then oar youth is in itsvigour and full perfection, subsisting as a medium between gene≠ration and decay; for such is the order which vigour is allotted.But the sifth age is governed by Mars; in which we principallyaspiie after power and superiority over others. The sixth age isgoverned by Jupiter; for in this we give ourselves up to pru≠dence, and pursue an active and political life. And the seventhage is Saturnian, in which it is natural to separate ourselves fromgeneration, and transfer ourselves to an iueorporeal life. Andthus much we h :ve discussed, in order to procure belief that let≠ters, and the wkjble education of youth, is suspended from theMercu: ial series."  only add, that as the first gifts of this godare intellectual, lo his last pertain to the acquisition of ain. Hencelie was called the god of merchandise and theft: for crust, as Plo-‚Ä¢ tinut- K a ;l;fully observes, is a ('.eflu'xton of intellect; and fromthese two professions craft is inseparable.



Pas^e -. T¬´ He-culct as to a hero.'] The grand source, aait appears to me, of all that dire confusion which has taken placein opinion- > "^'"g t.ie gods, is the belies that they were no≠thing more than men who once lived on the eartk, and after their



death



FIRST VOLUME. 



(ieath were deified for their exalted worth. fThil opinion too ori≠ginated from a misconception of divine fables, and ignorance ofthe manner in which every divine order proceeds to the extre≠mity of tli jigs. For every god, as I have before observed, confer*,the characteristic oshi nature on ail its participants; and thoseheroic souls that have at times appeared on the earth, and of whomwe have given an account in a former note, conscious that theypossessed the properties of those gods from whom they descended,calied themselves by tbt names of their parent divinities. Thusheroic fouls who descended from Jupirer, called themselves by thename of that god. Thus a hero √Üsculapius has lived among men,who descended from the god os that name. This too has been thecafe with an heroic Bacchus, Mercury, Apollo, and in short withheroes of the fame names with all the other gods. Hence we mustconsider Hercules as a hero who descended from the deity of thatname, who in his highelt subsistence, according to the Orphictheology, is the fame with the celebrated Phanes or Prutogmus,the exemplar of the universe. Ag heroic souls therefore of thiskind were, as we have before observed, called by the ancientsgods according to similitude, or in other words, from their ap≠proaching to the perfection of a divine nature as much as is pos≠sible to man, and particularly when liberated, from the presentbody ;‚Äîhence it is easy to see how Hercules may be a god, andyet a man; how the hero Hercules may be said to have been dei-sied after his death, without confounding the divine with the hu≠man nature; and in short, how ignorance of this mojl importantparticular has given birth to the delirious systems of modern wri≠ters on mythology.



Page . And cn her leadJhc hears the pole.] As the word*o*t;, the pole, was used by the ancients to signify the heavens, itseems to me evident that this statue represented Celestial Venus.



Page ij. Similar to the square figures of Mercury.] Procluson Euclid * informs us that the Pythagoreans signified by a* Lib. it. in Def. } et .



U  , square



¬´ NOTES ON THE



square a pure and immaculate order. And shortly after he adds,"that the gods who are the authors to all things of stable dispo≠sition, of pure and uncontaminated order, and of unincliningpower, are very properly manifested as from an image by a qua≠drangular figure." As it is the province therefore of Mercuryto unfold and fill all things with truth, and truth is the fame withsure simplicity; and as stability osejfcnct is derived from truth, wemay easily perceive the propriety of consecrating a square figureto Mercury. As Hercules too, according to his mundane distri≠bution as a god, seems to be the fame with the Sun, according tothe Orphic theology, and Mercury, Venus and Apollo arc deitiesof the fame order, and profoundly united to each other, we can≠not wonder that the statues of Hercules should resemble those ofMercury.



Page . Avcrrunci.~\ These gods were worshipped as tbtaverters of evil, as their name implies.



Page . Cerei Prq/lajia.'] That is, Ceres to whom empirehtkrtgs.



Pdgc i(. Sacred dragons.] A drag on, as we have before ob≠served, is a symbtd of the partial life of the soul; and health is sym≠metry, and asulssienee according to nature. But the soul, while (heis separated from the divinities, or in other words leads a partiallife, lives in a manner contrary to her nature, and is diseased. Sheicquires therefore the assistance of √Üsculapius, or the god ofhealth, that (he may be restored to her true life. And hence thepropriety of consecrating dragons to √Üsculapius. But a dragonOr y be considered as the symbol of partial life of every kind, andconsequently of that mortal life which is participated by thebody, and which on the dissolution of the corporeal frame returnsto the whole from whence it was derived. This life therefore fromits partial nature requires the assistance of √Üsculapius, and thisfrom its intimate connection with body in a most eminent degree jso that by consecrating a dragon to √Üsculapius, the ancients im-that this divinity is the physician both of fouls and bodies. Page



FIRST VOLUME. 



Page T . The Rhodlaa port.'] i. e. Apollonius in his Argo¬ªaautics, lib. i.



Page . Pythagoras was the son of Mnesarchus.] Jambli-chus in hi* Life of Pythagoras informs us, that Mntsarchus andPythais, who were the parents of Pythagoras, descended from,the house of Axxnz. ,



Page . Heb:.] This goddess is mentioned by Homer inthe Iliad, lib. iv. t.  ; and in the Odyssey, lib. xi. v. .



Page .  ‚Ä¢ "JfJet of the Hefperides.] The following beau≠tiful passage from the MS. Commentary of Olympiodorus on theGorgias of Plato, will inform the reader what he is to understandby the Heiperian regions, Jii Ji uimu ili cu tnaot uT'pxmrltvo't t*(SoAottt); twlifv aitra*. w cv> wsX&mm tip VTtflirfauNu too mm ‚ñ†!nit yaurimfj futnafvt mfftv; x¬´X¬´v<n. tx-S.ot it in ¬´j r* *\twio¬ª vAm^



‚ñ†ru ‚ñ†> <>AiiSiib kJ  .' ^<|. That is, "It it necessary to know, thatislands stand out of, as being higher than the sea. A conditionof being therefore, which trarfcinds this corporeal life and ge≠neration, is denominated the islands of the blessed; but these arethe /ame with the Elysian fields. Hence, Hercules is said tohave r~compli(hed his last labour in the Hesperian regions;signifying by tb.it, that having vanquished an obscure and terres≠trial life, he afterwards lived in open day, that is* in truth andresplendent light." I only add, that the Hesperian golden ap≠ples which were plucked by Hercules, signify his reaping unde-filed advantages, through arcane and telestic labours j for gold,from its incorruptible nature, is a symbol of purity.



Page . Hi* verses.] The translator of the verses herecited from Homer's hymn to Ceres, is Mr. Lucas.



Page . Danaus.] Danaus married his fifty daughters tohis brother's fifty sons, and caused all of them except Hyperm-nestra to slay their husbands the first night.



U Pigt



 NOTES ON THE



Page . Homer.'] This verse of Homer is in the Odyssey,Kb. ii. v. .



Page . In one of her hands she f olds a pomegranate.] Juno a viviiic goddess, and is the inflective guardian ot motion andprogression: and on this account (fays Oiympiodorus) in theHiad she perpetually roulea and excites Jupiter to providentialenergies about secondary concerns. With respect to the pome≠granate, the Emperor Julian, in his Oration to the Mother ofthe Gods, informs us, that it was not permitted to be eaten inthe sacred rites of#the goddess, because it is a terrestrialplant.Perhr.ps therefore, by Juno holding a pomegranate in her hand,her dominion over earthly natures is implied.



Page . With reflect to the cucko*ti$c.~\ Pausanias is cer≠tainly right, when he fays that such relations as the presentought not to be neglected; though he was far from apprehend≠ing it) meaning. The concealed fense however of this fableappears to me to be as follows: Jupiter, desirous that Juno, byparticipating- his divine energies, should become profoundlyunited to him (for this is the meaning of his being enamouredwith Juno), is beheld by the goddels as subsisting according tosublime wisdom. For a bird may be considered as the image* ofelevation: and a cuckoo, according te √Ülian, is a mrfl wise bird.Let it however be carefully remembered, that the divinities areprofoundly united to each bther perpetually, according lo ?.nenergy separate from mundane concerns, and yet at the fametime providentially preside over every part of the universe: butfables, in order to exhibit these different energies to our view,by apt images, are obliged to represent them as taking place atdifferent times.



Page . The reply of the Pythian oracle to Glaucus, the sonvf Epiades ling of the Spartans (read and king of the Spartans).]That cl.ildicn should be punished for the crimes of their parents,which the Pythian oracle said, was the cafe with the posterity of



Pelopi,



 



FIRST VOLUME. zcfl



Pelops, or cities for the sins of individuals, to a mind unenlighten≠ed by sublime philosophy, must appear highly absurd and unjust.But if we direct our attention to the pre-exi Hence of human souls,and consider that many are punished in the present, for offence*which they have committed in a former life; and that those,whose guilt is of a similar kind, are by the wife administrationof providence brought together, so as to form one family, orone city, the apparent absurdity in this doctrine immediatelyvanishes, and the equity of divine veigeance becomes conspi≠cuous. Proc'.us, in his book entitled Ten Doubts concerningProvidence, informs us tiiat the inyjhrics evince that certain per≠sons are punist.cd for the crimes of their progenitors, and thatgods who preside over expiations, *wioi i¬´, free offending fouls



from such punishments.Page . The oracle.*] The whole of this oracle (for Pau-



fanias only gives the first part of it) is given by Herodotus,



lib. vi."



Page . Jupiter Phyxiui.] Jupiter was so called becauselie assists fugitives.



Page . The following /tn¬ª.] These lines are ia the lastbook of the Iliad, v.  and  of Mr. Tope's translation.



Fage . Dispersed the dirliuss from his eyes."] The circum*stance respecting Diomed, here mentioned by Pausanias, isrelnted by Homer in the fifth book of the Iliad; where Minervais represented thus addressing Diomed:



AyXvv stv toi oltt* o^daXfMff i\o¬ª, ri ttqi esniiif,



Le. ‚Ä¢



"From mortal mists thine eyes are purg'd by me,And well enabled gods nd men to fee."



Minerva is with great propriety represented by Homer as thu¬ªemployed: for she not only enkindles intellectual light in thefoul, but removes that darkness, which, when resident in the eye



of



s$ NOTES ON THf



of the soul, prevents it from beholding the nature of gods andmen. And here it may not be improper to observe, that,through ignorance of ancient theology, a very beautiful passagein the fifth book of the Iliad has not been understood either byttuy of the translators or commentators on Homer that I amacquainted with. Thii passage is in the beginning of the fifthbook, and consists of tlie th and th lines, which are these;



XCU¬ª ci XV( $MH .. rjx\i T> Kj uu.ur.



These lines, literally and truly translated, are as follow:



"She (that is Minerva) enkindledan unwearied fire from hithelmet and his shield." And, "Such a fire did Jhe enkindle fromhis head and his shoulders." But all the translators render theselines, as if unwearied fire in the first line and fire in the secondwere nominatives, i.;nl not accusatives. I am indebted to Pro-elus in Plat. Polit. p. . tor this information.



Page . Three eyes-] These three eyes in the statue of Ju≠piter were doubtless designed as symbols of those three deities,Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto, of whom we have given a copiousaccount in a former note: r>nd these eyes being fixed in onebody, signify the profound union of these deities with each other.The verse of Homer cited by P:.usania is in the Iliad, lib. viii.



Page  . Nor.ier.J Iliad. . ver. . For what reason Pau-sanias concludes that √Üsculapius i called a god by Homer inthese verses, I cannot possibly conjecture. It cannot be fromthe epithet xfi.vu.vi Homeless; for this is given by Homer to men,as to Chalcas in the first book of the Iliad, and to Ulysses in theOdyssey: and there is no other word which seems in the least tofavour the construction of Pausanias.



Page . Orui.] This Egyptian deity is the fame withApollo and the Sun, according to Herodotus, lib. ii. . √Üliantp. . the Emperor Julian, orat. . Horapollo. lib. i. c. .



Plutarch



 



FIRST VOLUME. cpf



Plutarcli de Ifide. Potphyry apud Euseb. and Macrobius I.Saturn. .



Page . The signature os a trident.'] The following passagjfrom the MS. Commentary of Olympiodorus on the Gorgiasunfolds the meaning of Neptune's trident in a manner perfectlysatisfactory, and at the fame time shews the great beauty of thesymbols employed by the ancients in their arcane theology, if tU-t t* lyxoirpia, T<* fti¬ª gvpana, T¬ª ii ^o¬ª*, x¬´¬ª t¬ª Tavlw,vvfia, acpia, uSutt,a. ruu n&tn fin ret aufctnx ‚Ä¢ {‚Ä¢"ft ia H %oneo



i *&‚Ä¢*)‚Ä¢¬ª, T¬´ Jt J/tla¬£t  .CCUoV¬ª. ToJlo ¬£l¬´>{ (T¬ª!ff!¬ª¬ª <U; ITUfUM-



m¬ª to JUarwtN  it wwmhn ha rwlo r/rnuatf *t ityofot too t^itIoutoitou Toy f*iia¬£u.   irXoti?¬ª¬´ xmmv, Jia to irxoliiwi. uamf yafxiectir, xfvitlii Tuv xtfuhnt, ci/m xai aulij ?) eVrofxtf Tot cfpxnit in. Thatis, *‚Ä¢ Mundane natures are triple: for some are celestial, othersterrestrial, and others situated between these; viz. natures fiery,aerial, aquatic. And of these, Jupiter possesses such as are celes≠tial, Pluto such as are terrestrial, and Neptune the natures be≠tween these. Hence Jupiter holds a sceptre, which signifieshis judicial power*. But Neptune a trident, because he it thtinspective guardian os this triple nature, which has a middlejituation.And Pluto wears a helmet, on account of the darkness overwhich he presides. For, as a helmet conceals the head, so Plutois the power that presides over invisible natures."



And here, a reader unskilled in the ancient theology willdoubtless object, that according to this doctrine, Neptune musteither be the fame with Juno, since he is the divinity of air, orthere must be two divinities of the air. To this I answer, thatNeptune, considered as one divinity who presides over all themiddle elements, comprehends in his essence Juno, according toher sublunary distribution; so that both Neptune and Junogovern the air, but the former more universally, and the lattermore particularly; the former ruling at the same time over other



* It likewise signifies, as we have before observed frem Proclus, hijtammanding or ruling characteristic.



natures,



yx> NOTES ON THE



‚ñ†atures, but the latter pfefiding over'air alone. And the famereasoning must be extended to Neptune and Vulcan, n Ith respectto the element of sire.



I only acid, that the helmet os Pluto, which ; '.ipiodorusspeaks of in the above citation, is mentioned by Homer in theIliad, lib. v. ver. .



Ail* xwrav, jit) pu i^ci oCfivo; Apt;;.



i. e.



"Minerva then, lest powerful Mars shauld viewHer visage, cover'd it with F.uto's helm."



And from hence we may infer the great antiquity of helmets$hat entirely covered the face.



Page . Depriving Homer of sight.~\ Those who have hap≠pily penetrated the profound wisdom of the ancients, will beeasily convinced that the report concerning the blindness ofHomer is merely fabulous, containing some recondite informa≠tion, like other divine fables of antiquity. For he is said tohave lost his sig"t through his accusation of Helen. But itwould be ridiculous in the extreme, if we take all that is relatedof Helen in the literal stuse, to suppose that Homer should havebeen deprived of his light for reviling such an infamous woman.Indeed, not only the blindness of Homer il fabulous, but boththe Iliad and Odyssey are to be considered as divine fables. I donot mean to assert by this, that there never was such a war asthe Trojan, or such a person as Ulysses: but it is my opinion,that Humcr, by combining fiction with certain historical facts,has delivered to us some very concealed and valuable informationin these two admirable poems.



That the rape of Helen indeed is fabulous, was the opinion oF less a person than Plato, as is evident from the following pas≠sage from his Phxdrus: "There is an ancient purification forthose who offend in matters respecting mythology, which Ho≠mer



FIRST VOLUME.



mer did not perceive, but which was known to Stesichorili.For being deprived of his eyes through his accusation of Hel n,he was not, like Homer, ignorant of the cui<e of his blindnets,but knew it, as being a musician. So that he immediately com≠posed the followirg lines:



False was my tale; thou ne'er across the main



In beauteous ships didst fly, Troy's lofty totv'rs to gain.



And thus having composed a poem directly contrary to whathe had before published, and which is called a recantation, heimmediately recovered his lost sight "." That the blindnen- tooof Homer, and his account of the Trojan war, are pregnantwith mystic meaning, is thus beautifully shewn by l'roclui. onPlato's Republic, p. ^: "Stefichorus, who considered ;hewhole fa';le of Helen as a true narration, who approved the con≠sequent transact'c.iis, and established his poetry accordingly,with great propriety suffered the punishment of his folly, that is,ignorance: but at length, through the afliu ^f-e of rm'sic, he issaid to have acknowledged his. error; and tl< thro igh under≠standing the mysteries concerning Helen and the Trojan war, tohave recovered his sight. But Homer is said to have been bli'id,not on account of his ignorance of these mysteries, as Stefichorus,but through a more perfect h:\hit of the foul; viz. by separatinghimself from scnub;e beauty, establishing his intelligence aboveall apparent harmony, and-extending th- intellect of his foul tounapparenr r;nd true harmony. Hence, he is said to have beenblind, because that intellectual beauty to which he raised him-



m; cMf l^Sile, STrjo-i^it-rof Ji. ta > yuf cupalvt r^nSa; Jia t¬ª> EXshj;



,¬´¬ª‚ñ†‚ñ†-"'. wtimtSifft Ciw if' flu.uoj  ?.oyo-, nuloi' ue* t&c; untmt



r¬ªJw¬ª¬´uta¬ª, waga^?"/*-' P. ¬ªi-Edit. Vien.



 self,



joz NOTES ON THE



self, cannot be usurped by corporeal eyes. On this account,too, fables bordering on tragedy represent Homer as deprivedof sight, on account of his accusation of Helen. But fables, inmy opinion, intend to signify by Helen all the beauty subsistingabout generation, for which there is a perpetual battle ¬´f fouls,till the more intellectual, having vanquished the more irrationalforms of life, return to that place from which they originallycame. But, according to some, the period of their circulationabout sensible forms consists of ten thousand years, since a thou≠sand years produce one ambit as of one year. For nine yearstherefore, i. e. for nine thousand years, fouls revolve about ge≠neration; but in the tenth having vanquished all the barbarictumult, they are said to have returned to their paternal habi≠tations." I only add farther, that the English reader who itdesirous of understanding the mystic meaning of the Odyssey,may perhaps find his expectations not entirely disappointed byperusing the notes to my translation of Porphyry on Homer'*Cave of the Nymphs, in vol. ii. of Proclus on Euclid.



Page . Sacrifice/ and incantations,~\ He, whose intellectualeye is strong enough to perceive that all things sympathize withall, will be convinced that the magic, cultivated by the ancientphilosophers, is founded on a theory no less sublime than ration≠al and true. Such a one will consider, as Plotinus observes, thenature of foul, as every where easy to be attracted, when a propersubject is at hand, which is easily passive to its influence. And,that every thing adapted to imitation is readily passive; and is likea mirror able to seize a certain form, and reflect it to the view.



Page . Cere) indeed is called Chthenia."] Chthonia meansterrestrial; and Cere* was, we may suppose, thus denominatedfrom her profound union with Vesta, the proper divinity of theearth. "For some (says Proclus on Euclid) call both theEarth and Ceres, Vesta, and they fay that Rhca totally par≠ticipates her nature, and that all generative causes arc containedin her essence."



 



FIRST VOLUME.



Page ;. The hydra."] As we have already shewn that thelabours of Hercules are allegorical, the account given of his cut≠ting off the hydra's heads, which formed one of his labours, mustconsequently be a fabulous narration. By the hydra, therefore,the ancients seem to have occultly signified the various and ma≠terial form of the foul, which branches out into‚ÄîI. Communi≠cation with the lives and opinions of the multitude. . Multi≠form desires, which divide the foul about body, and cause it toenergize about externals; at one time connecting it with irra≠tional pleasures, and at another time with actions indefinite and,opposing each other. . The senses, which are educated as itwere with the rational foul, and deceive its cogitative power; forthese are multiform, and perceive nothing accurate or true,. Phantasies, on account of their figured and divisible nature,and immense variety, which do not suffer us to betake ourselves)to an indivisible and immaterial essence, but draw down those whoare hastening to the apprehension of such a nature, to a passiveIntelligence. . Opinions, because these are various and infinite,tend to externals, and are mingled with phantasy and sense. Thehydra's heads therefore are images of all these, which Hercules,who is an intellectual hero, is with great propriety said to havedestroyed.



Page . To had loch Semele."] Bacchus is the monad, orproximately exempt producing cause of the Titaus, or ultimateartificers of things; and Semele, as we have shewn from Olynv*piodorns, in a former note, is sublunary fire, i. e. the divinity ofsublunary fire. As Semele, therefore, according to heT ultimateprogressions, is suspended from Bacchus, she may verv properlybe laid to have been led back from Hades, or the profundities ofa material nature, by Bacchus; because every divine monad ele≠vates to itself the series of which it is the head. I only add, thatit is by no means improbable that this Alcyonian lake may be oneof those passages through which the defluxions of the element*are transmitted to the inmost, recesses of the earth, so as to forra



those



o NOTES ON THE



those suhtrrranran rivers which are so much celebrated by an≠cient theologists. So thn nothijg more >'¬ª meant bv in s fable,than that this divine powtr Scmele, while she illumirsi-.s the po-fundities of the earth with as great a portion of divine !‚ñ†<.>.‚Äû ttthey are capable or receiving, of a light winch is enshrined as itwere in she -r./~ st Gre,is at the fame iimc elevated by Baccl.mto an energy perttsi'y immaterial, impalSvc and pure, lor di-yinc illumination, while it proceeds into the da: k and rclour.diugreceptacle of matter, is neither c.ciircu by its darkness, cefi.edby its impurity, nor debilitated by itt. privation of reality.



Page . Homer.'] These verses, the transhror os which isMr. Pope, are to be found in the Odyssey, lib. six. Ter. -.



Page . The oracle.'] This oracle is ghen at length byHerodotus, lib. i. p.  .



Page . Who has dared to corrupt the oracle of the god.]There camiot be the leall Joi;bt but that the greater part of menof the present day believe the ancient oracles to have been nothingmore than the tricks of designing priests; and the remainingpart, which is certainly a very tmall one, wiil, as it appears to me,ascribe them to the influence of evil spirits. However, as it is awell known fact that moil of the oracles ceased when the Christianreligion made its appearance, it is impossible that they should havebeen nothing more than fraudulent tricks; for, if this had beenthe cafe, there was a much gicatei necessity than ever for the ex≠ercise of such tricks, when a new religion started up, diameti icallyopposite to the old one; nor can any reason be affigned why onthis hypothesis the oracles should cease. On the other hand, tosay that they were produced by the influence of evil spirits, isjust as absurd as to assert that evil is naturally the source of good;for the tendency os the oracles was evidently direited to the goodboth of individuals and cities, which in numberless instances theywere the means of procuring. It may therefore be safely con≠cluded that they were produced by divine influence; and thatthey ceased when the Christian religion appeared, because the



part*



 



FIRST VOLUME.



parts of the earth In which the oracles were given then becametoo impure to receive the prophetic inspiration. For, as wehave observed in a former note, there must be a concurrence ofproper instruments, times, and places, in order to receive divine in≠fluence in a proper manner; so that when all or any of these arewanting, this influence will either be not at all received, or will bereceived mingled with the delusions of error. But let the l eaderwho desires popular conviction of this important fact, that therewas no collusion in general in the ancient oraclce, peruse the firstbook of Cicero De Divinationc \ and unless his intellectual eye isdreadfully Winded by the darkness of perseS at'hcism, which hasnow spread itself among all ranks of men, he must be at least con≠vinced that they were not produced by the knavery of priests.That the priests indeed were sometimes corrupted, the passagebefore us of Pausanias, and many other instances which mightbe adduced, sufficiently prove; but this does not in the least in≠validate the existence of divine influence, or the reality of ora≠cular prediction; because the best thing always have been andalways will be perverted, through the weakness and viciousnessof the bulk of mankind.



Page . Tie Archon EpcnymusS] Sylburgius observes heie,that governors of this kind were called Archons, because theyannually possessed the supreme authority: but that they werecalled Eponymi, because the years in the fasti and annals were in≠scribed aster their names; just as among the Romans the yearswere not only numbered from the time in which their city wasbuilt, but were rendered remarkable by the names of their con≠suls.



Page . Jupiter Euanemus.~\ That is, Jupiter the cause osprosperous winds.



Page . Neptune Hippoeurius.~\ Pindar, in his Isthmian andNem√¶an odes, (hews that a festival wastelebrated by the Thebaciin honour of Neptune Hippocurius.



Page . Britomariis. This word is a compound of theVot. III. X Creta*



 NOTES ON THE



Cretan words fpilt^sweet, and y-afn< a -virgin: and according toBochart, the latter of these words is derived from the Arabicmaratb.



Page . Enyalian Mars.] That is, Mars the son os Bd-lona.



Page . EnotUan Hecate] Diana, according to Festus, wascalled Enodia, because she presides over ways. We have beforeobserved that there is a wonderful union between Hecate andDiana; and hence Proclus in his common hymn, which has beenalready cited in these notes, calls Hecate Prothyrtif, which, aswe are informed by Diodorus, is one of the appellations ofDiana.



Page . Orthia Diana.'] Hesychius informs us that Dianacame to be thus denominated from a place in Arcadia where (hehad a temple.



Page . Sprinkled with human Mood.] If we attend to thepre-existence of human fouls, and consider the crimes which theymay have committed in former periods of existence on the earth,and at the fame time consider that nothing escapes the pene≠trating eye of providence, and that all its administrations are con-consummately just, the apparent cruelty in the injunction of thisoracle vanishes. For of what consequence is it whether a manwho deserves to die is flain before an altar, or put to death in acommon way? And we may be sure that no man is punished ei≠ther with death or the loss of his possessions, or is in short op≠pressed with any calamity, unjustly. For though the conduct ofsuch a one in that period of his existence in which he suffers may de≠serve a milder destiny, yet it may be safely concluded that in somepast period of existence, it has been such as to demand the pu≠nishment which he endures. It must however be observed, thatthis doctrine does not hold good with respect to truly worthymen, by which I mean those heroic souls of whom I have givenan account in a former note; for the calamities which befallothers, when they happen to these, are sent by divinity as purifi≠cation*



 



FIRST VOLUME. }



Cations necessary to the perfection of their virtue. The numberof these however is but small, and consequently the exceptionsto this observation are but few.



Page . Are believed to be brothers."] Sleep and Death werewith great propriety said by the ancients to be twins, from theintimate alliance between Sense and Phantasy, from which we areliberated by these divinities. For as Sleep frees us from the senses,so Death from the phantasy. But Sltep, considered as a godjis that power through which the divinities are enabled to ener≠gize in a manner separate from all inferior concerns, at the fametime that their providential care is extended to every part of theuniverse : and this latter energy was denominated by ancient the-ologists vigilance. I only add, that the passage of Homer alludedto by Pausaniasis Iliad . v. , and that Sleep and Death arecalled brothers both by Orpheus and Hcsiod.



Page . Chiron.'] Chiron, according to fables, was the sonof Saturn by the nymph Philyra the daughter of Ocean. Andit is said that Saturn, in order to elude Rhea, changed himselfinto a horse when he was connected with Philyra. Hence theupper parts of Chiron, as far as to his navel, were those of a man,and his lower parts were those of a horse. Chiron, therefore, isthe image of a man, who lived in the confines of the kingdom ofJupiter and Saturn, or, in other words, who lived a life partly‚Ä¢consisting of the political and partly of the intellectual virtues,but yet so that he possessed the former in greater perfection thanthe latter. For the fable, by asserting that his upper parts werehuman, signifies his living according to the politic virtues, of whichJupiter is the exemplar j since Jupiter is peculiarly ir*T¬ª; a>Jja¬ªnSiarc-i, the father of gods and men. As Jupiter therefore is emi≠nently a political god, man must partake in an eminent degree of apolitical life. But the lower parts of Chiron evidently partakeof the nature of Saturn: and Saturn is the source of an intel-leSual life, which he causes to receive the most extreme division.But what are we to understand by Saturn changing himself into



X x a horse I



o - NOTES ON THE



a hoi se? I answer, that a certain d√¶moniacal power of the orderof Saturn ib signified by this mutation. For ancient theologtflscalled the processions of any divinity to the lad of things, ac≠cording to different orders and degrees, mutations. So that thefable, by asserting that Chiron was the son of Caturn by one ofthe nymphs of the ocean, signifies that a Saturnian d√¶mon and anymph co-operated with the parents of Chiron, by a certain na≠tural sympathy, in begetting him.



Page . The judgment of Parti.] The fable here alludedto is thus beautifully explained by the philosopher Sallust, in histreatise De Diis et Mundo, cap. . "It is said that Discord, ata banquet of the gods, threw a golden apple, and that a disputeabout it arising among* the goddesses, they were sent by Jupiterto take the judgment of Paris, who, charmed with the beautyof Venus, gave her the apple in preference to the rest. In thisfable, the banquet denotes the supermundane powers of thegods; and on this account they subsist in conjunction with eachother; but the golden apple denotes the world, which, on ac≠count of its composition from contrary natures, is not improperlysaid to be thrown by Discord, or Strife. But again, since dif≠ferent gists are imparted to the world by different gods, theyappear to contest with each other for the apple. And a foulliving according to fense (for this is Paris), not perceiving otherpowers in the universe, asserts that the contended apple subsistsalone through the beauty of Venus."



Page . Dragging the three-mouthed dog from Hadcs.~\ Bya dog the ancients signified the discriminating and at the sametime reproving power of the souL For of this power the sagacityand barling of a dog are images. And as its energies are triple,(for it detects and reproves the fallacies of the senses, imagination,and opinion), these are represented by the three heads of Cer≠berus. The great Hercules therefore drew this dog from Hade*up to the regions of day; viz. he liberated this power of hisfoul from its residence in the dark profundities of a material



 nature,



i



FIRST VOLUME.



nature, and" raised it to the light of truth. This account ofCerberus appears to me to be more accurate than that whichI have given in my Dissertation on the Eleusinian and BacchicMysteries.



Page . Plritbous and Theseus forcibly taking away Helen."]"Theseus and Pirithous," fays Proclus, in Plat. Polit. p. ,"are fabled to have ravished Helen, and descended to the infer≠nal regions; i. e. were lovers both of intelligible and visiblebeauty. Afterwards one of these (Theseus), on account of hismagnanimity, was liberated by Hercules from Hades; but theother (Pirithous) remained there, because he could not sustainthe arduous altitude of divine contemplation."



Page . Bacchus, whom in my opinion they very prtperlydenominate Pfila.] ' Bacchus may with great propriety be CalledPJila, or wings; for he is an intelleftual deity, and intelleS is of anelevating nature.



Page . Homer.] Iliad, lib. xxiv. ver. .



Page . Homer.] Iliad, lib. xviii. ver. .



Page .' Homer."] Iliad, lib. ix. ver.  ; and in the fameverse Enope is mentioned.



Page . The small Iliad.] Herodotus, in his Life of Ho≠mer, fays that this poem was composed by Homer, while he re≠sided with Thestorides, and that afterwards the pedagogue pub≠lished it as his own.



Page . In his catalogue."] Iliad, lib. ii. The verses whichfollow are from the Odyssey, lib. xxi. ver. , and lib. iii.ver. .



Page . The Great Eocit.] This poem, which is likewisecalled The Catalogue of Women, is ascribed to Hesiod; and Fa-bricius conjectures that the Shield of Hercules isa part of it.



Page . But some god who had so often preserved Arijlomenes,i$c] The readers of that most ingenious and entertaining workcalled the Arabian Nights Entertainments will doubtless be agree≠ably surprised to find, if they have not discovered it before, that



X  this



Sio NOTES ON THE



this interesting account of the preservation of An'stomenes in thedeep chasm, has been taken from Pausanias with some alterationby the author of those tales, and forms one of the most curiousparts of the history of Sindlad the sailor. A a the Arabians, alittle after the year of Christ , under the auspices of the Ca≠liph Almaimon, who was the great patron of literature, and in≠deed by his orders, translated the best works of the Grecian phi≠losophers and mathematicians into Arabic, perhaps Pausaniaswas translated by them at the same time. I only add, that Aristo-menes appears to have been one of those heroes of whom we havegiven an account in a former note.



Page . The anger of the Dioscuri.'] We must not supposethat a divine nature is capable of anger, or can be appeased bygifts: for in this cafe it would be subject to pasfion, and influ≠enced by delight. But by such expressions as these nothing moreis implied than the effects which vice and virtue produce in ourfouls. For guilt, as Sallust * well observes, prevents us from re≠ceiving the illuminations of the gods, and subjects us to the powerof avenging d√¶mons; and prayers and sacrifices become the re≠medies of our vices, and cause us to partake of the goodness ofthe gods. So that it is the fame thing, fays he, to assert thatdivinity is turned from the evil, as to fay that the fun is concealedfrom those who are deprived of sight.



Page . Sacadai and Pronomus.] For particulars respect≠ing Sacadas, consult the Corinthiacs and Eliacs of Pausanias,Suidas informs us that Pronomus was a piper remarkable for hisgreat beard. He is also mentioned by Aristophanes in Ecclcfia-zusis, and by Athen√¶us, lib. xiv. cap. .



Page . In the Iliad.'] The particulars respecting Patro-clus are in Iliad . ver. ; respecting the spies, in Iliad lo,ver. ; and respecting the spy sent to Troy, in Iliad .rer. . The passage respecting those that were lest to guard



¬ª Pe Diis et Mundo.



 



FIRST VOLUME. jti



the walls of Troy is in. Iliad . ver. , &c. And the last pas-lage is in Iliad . ver. ; , &c.



Page . Fortune."] Fortune is that divine power whichdisposes things differing from each other, and happening contraryto expectation, to beneficent purposes. Or it may be defined thatdeific distribution which causes every thing to fill up the lot as≠signed to it by the condition of its being. This divinity toocongregates all sublunary causes, and enables them to confer onsublunary effects that particular good which their nature andmerits eminently deserve. But the following extraordinarypassage from Simplicius on Aristotle's Physics, lib. ii. p. , con≠cerning Fortune, will I doubt not be acceptable to readers ofevery description.‚Äîx fit *vx,*i imuMnut tu¬ª i/voo-iXumii /xaXir*too sra/roj ti.a¬ª iuuuurfiu,  xj ij too uityj>iuno fosv, r.t cctqcx-‚Ä¢tat ovaat x¬´' lavir,*, n TV)Cn /xstoc rut A>J\vr a^yr,ynuy eurwt xano-fioiu, thtii, K) xu&gia. Jia x) otiJoAmu ccurii J.Jov-i KgaTitr, wCe¬£WO¬∞i) TCt ev tb "Terry mj ytnvtv; wXiorra. x| to srcioaXiOF trt c$ai-f¬ªf tiziavs-w ¬´{ ti *raro¬ª tij; ‚ñ†yevsoiws xaTEofioraxm;. *e¬£<x; ii a^taXOiia;‚Ä¢> TJI OT{* tow X' ¬ßo>¬ª xagruv ¬ªX¬ªg¬£{, a; too rv^tu ‚ñ†zxvlut fltiify xag-ttr¬´¬ª atria. AV¬ª touto oi, x) sre?.i¬ª¬ª xj ootwv, x) in; Exafov Ti,u¬´fu> Toj^otj,on oixsaits; td; Gnaj iiwev;, Xi>JuiSL.o¬´fr jtafXOC¬£Ttu> T¬ª{ ixi-



CaXXot/eTj; f/.ii|fw;. ic) Jeo;xi¬ª T¬£{ to TUJJEiy tt); TI eoo Tt/^ISi *) T¬´¬ªi> toi; xjhtWi yinau Ti)¬ª ootdii ip^ouo-ai* Micmrrx. xj ir¬´ n¬ª srao-a toj¬£>iayaflrj. xj yaj ) ¬ª¬´ra Tiffi; ayadoo Tito? irt¬ªi avii virirv T¬ª ttom turotoo flxw. t¬´> Ji ayaEtan, t¬´ f-tsv tr> wjoiiyow/iiya, t* j) xoXas-uta, i) ti-pt>¬£os, aarig xai xaxx XiyEin tOkrjixiOse. xai Jia tamo xa> tv^io, thk f¬ªi¬ªayaQur owjua^o^Ey, d ti; tou tu^siv t¬´¬ª irgonyoufitoui (tyaAtn au-tut iyi¬ªT>l? of xaxut, ¬ª ti; y.rsf.xau; rj Tifiawux; rj/xa; sraj*xso¬ª¬£ft tu^ie?. ‚ñ†That is, " The power of Fortune particularly disposes in an or≠derly manner the sublunary part of the universe, in which thenature of that which is contingent is contained, and which beingessentially disordered, Fortune, in conjunction with other pri≠mary causes, directs, places in order, and governs. Hence sheis represented guiding a rudder, because she governs things sailing



X  on



ta NOTES ON THE



on the sea of generation. Her rudder too is fixed on a globs,because slie directs that which is unstable in generation. Iu herother hand ihe holds the horn of Amullhea, which is full of fruits,because (he is the cause oi obtaining all divine fruits. And onthis account we venerate the fortunes of cities and houses, and ofeach individual; because, being veiy remote from divine union,we are in danget of being deprived of iu participation, and re≠quire in order to obtain it the assistance os the goddess Fortune,and of those natures* superior to the human who possess the cha-racteiistic of this divinity. Indeed every fortune is good; for every‚ñ† attainment refpeBssomething good, nor dtes any thing evilJuhfifl fromdivinity. But of thing) good some are preccdan:ous, and others areof a punishing or revenging charaBerijlic, which <we are acctiftomed tocall evils. Hence lue speak of two Fortunes, one of which we de-nominate GOOD, and which is the cause of our obtaining preceaancoutgoods, and ihe other evil, which prepares us to receive punishment orrevenge."



From this beautiful passage it is easy to see why Fortune in theOrphic hymns is called Diana; for each of these divinities governsthe sublunary world. At the same time it is a singular circum≠stance, that among the images of Fortune in Montfaucon there isbut one with a rudder on a globe.



Page . Iliad.'] Minerva, and Enyo, or BeVona, are men≠tioned together, Iliad . v. . Nuptials arefaid to be taken careof by Venus. Iliad . ver. .



Page . Particularly by riato, the son of jfri/Ion.'] ThatPlato firmly believed in the immortality of the foul, is evidentfrom his Phatdrus, the tenth book of his Republic, and his seventhepistle, which contains the following remarkable passage: t¬ªw-Sai Si ct?¬ªj an yjp Toi; roAcuoif ti not iifcif Aeyoi; S ct) fintiovau¬´$¬´iuo¬ª f,v}r,i i;im, ¬´a,-e; ti if; sn, x<u TWM T¬ª{ (¬´:'.'-¬ª.; ii^i'w*:,olai ti{ ara^ax^yi rov ffa/uetV. i.e. "It is proper indeed always tobelieve in ancient and sacred discourses, which announce to u¬ª



* i. e. Augels, d√¶mons, and heraes.



that



 



FIRST VOLUME. 



that the soul is immortal, and that it has judges of its conduct,and suffers the greatest punishments, when it is liberated fromthe body."



Page . That affirm Jupiter was brought up among them,~\It appears to me, that the reason why fa many nations have as.serted that Jupiter was born and educated among them, origi≠nated from hence: Heroic fouls, such as we hare already de≠scribed, who, in consequence of knowing that they descendedfrom Jupiter, and living a life conformable to the characteristicof that divinity, were called the sons of Jupiter, and assumed thename of their parent, may bt supposed to have been born in dif≠ferent periods in every part of the earth; and this has givenoccasion to so many nations to boast that Jupiter was born amongthem, each nation confounding a hero who called himself Ju≠piter, for the reason above assigned, with the divinity of thatname. I add, that Crei: was fabulously called the birth≠-place of Jupiter by the ancient flieologists: I hy, fabulously,for Proclus informs us, that these theolorjllts meant by Crete tonJ.m an intelligible nature, in which Jupiter may with great pro≠priety and beauty be said to have been born and nursed.



Page . TLamyrti,'] The verses of Homer respecting Tha-myris, alluded to by Paufanias, are in the second book of theIliad, v. , &c. and are thus translated by Mr. Pope:



‚Ä¢ And Dorion, fam'd for Thamyrii" disgrace,



Superior once of all the tuneful race, -Till, vain of mortals' empty praise, he stroveTo match the seed of cloud-compelling Jove IToo daring bard I whose unsuccessful pride ‚Ä¢Th' immortal Muses in thrir art defy'd.Th' avenging Muses of the light of dayPepnv'd his eyes, and snatch'd his voice away jNo more his heavenly voice was heard to sing.His hand no more awak'd the silver string.



Put we must not suppose that Homer means Thamyris was corpo-



reall



i NOTES ON THE FIRST VOLUME.



really blind; for the intention of the poet in this narration,which is doubtless fabulous, was to signify thatThamyris, throughdespising a deific energy, became mentally blind, and thus nolonger experienced that inspiring influence of the Muses, whichprior to this used to illuminate the greatest eye of his foul withdivine light. The blindness of Homer, which was far differentfrom that of Thamyris, we have explained in a former note.



Page . Herodotos.'] Lib. iv.



Page . Homer..] Iliad , ver. .



Page . Ipbidanuu.] Iliad . ver. .



notes



 



NOTES



ON THE



SECOND VOLUME.



Page . ENDTMION.'] The following remarkable pas≠sage, from the MS. Commentary of Olympiodorus on thePh√¶do, contains an explanation of the fable of Endymion. EXi-



ytio at oi/lo; (Y.w-jutcy) ait xa^tvSin, Ml arfon/nm tx Eprj^ia;&to xai ^*?*oj Til o xai T?pi VsltXtuaiov tpa&it* oJlof yap ¬´cr¬ª



i:yy :y. t:r> ii toi; Xtyopimt ssltfo*? r¬ªv Katu^ov unn affO¬ª)tufyokoifa. Jio v.cu EviypoS\]/ao ra; <-¬ªXa{ ixit To* it;f>!f*iw¬ª av*> arpo-¬ªo^i*w¬ª ieyfuAvi. That is, "He (Endymion) is said to have sleptperpetually, because he applied himself in solitude to the studyos astronomy. Hence, too, he is said to have been beloved bythe Moon. And the same things are reported of Ptolemy, whogave himself wholly to the study of astronomy for forty years, inthat place which is called the Pteroi of Canobus. On whichaccount he inscribed on the pillars contained in that place, theastronomical dogmata which he invented."  only add, thatthe Grecian architects by the word Trlspa, or wings, signified theroofs of their temples, as may be seen from the Greek Scholiaston this verse of Aristophanes;



raf yap vpai oixiaj (pii^o/xiv irpo;auo¬ª.



i. e.



"We sliall cover your houses towards the north,"



For the Scholiast observes, that Aristophanes uses these wordson account of the roofs of temples, whiqh were like the wings of



a flying



r NOTES ON THE



a flying eagle. See likewise Suidas, and Eustathius on the lastbook of the IKad. Ptolemy therefore, from consuming most pro≠bably a great part of every day and night on the roof o? thetemple of Canobus, in the open air, for the space of forty years,is very properly compared by Olympiodorus to Endymion.



Page io. They ought to consult the Delphic Apollo, about themeans of being freed from the evils, &cj] The prodigious ad≠vantages which mankind derived from prophecy, arc beautifullyffiewn by Plato in the following passage from his Ph√¶drus: "In≠deed, in the greatest diseases and labours, to which certain personsare sometimes subject, through the indignation of the gods, inConsequence of guilt; fury, when It takes place, predicting whatthey stand in need of, discovers a liberation of such evils, byflying to prayer and the worship of the gods. Hence, obtainingby this means purifications, and the advantages of initiation, itTenders such a one free from disasters, both for the present andsuture time, by discovering to him a solution of his present evil,through the means of one who is properly furious and divinelyinspired.



Page . Homer.'] Iliad II. v.  r.



Page . The golden race.] The different ages of mankindwhich are celebrated by Hefiod in his Worh and Days, signify thedifferent lives which the individuals of the human species passthrough; and, as Proclus on Hefiod beautifully observes, theymay be comprehended in this triad, the golden, the JSver, andthe brazen age. But by the golden age an intellectual life isimplied. For such a life is pure, impassive, and free from for-



‚Ä¢ row; and of this impassivity and purity gold is an image,through its never being subject to rust or putrefaction. Sucha life too is very properly said to be under Saturn, becauseSaturn, as we have before (hewn, is an intellectual god. By the



Jifoer age a rustic and natural life is implied, in which the at≠tention of the rational foul is entirely directed to the care ofthe body, but without proceeding to the extremity of vice. And



SECOND VOLUME. ?



try the Waxen age, a dite, tyrannic, and cruel Use is implied,which is entirely passive, and proceeds to the very extremity of¬ªice. The order of these metals, as Proclus observes, har≠monizes with that of these lives. "For (fays he) gold is solar-form, because the sun is solely immaterial light. But silver Ulunat-sorm, because the moon partakes of shadow, just as silverdoes of rust. And bras is earthly, so far as, not having a natureiimilar to a lucid body, it is replete with abundance of cor≠ruption.''



Page . CW/¬´.] The Curetes are gods of an unpollutedguardian characteristic, and fi^l subsist in that order of godswhich is called by the Chaldean theologists toipot, intelleSual,The Cory baa tej, who form the guardian triad of supermundanegods, are analogous to these.



Page . In consequence oshaving dethroned Saturn.~\ By Ju≠piter dethroning Saturn, nothing more is meant, than thatJupiter is the medium, through which the prolific powers andintellectual illuminations of Saturn proceed, and are participatedby the sensible world.



Page . The StymphaTian birds, and the Kemean Aon.] Bythe Stymphalian birds which were driven away by Hercules,and were so large that they obstructed the light of the sun, theobjects of phantasy are signified, which prevent the light of truthfrom mining in the soul: and the Nemean lion signifies anger.



Page . Homer in the Iliad.] The verses alluded to byFaufanias are these:



Heaven's gates spontaneous open to the pow'rs,Heaven's sounding gates kept by the w inged hours.



Iliad S. v. .



Page  . That the goddess it drawn by a mule."] The moonmay with great propriety be represented drawn by a mule, be≠cause, as Proclus on Hesiod, p. , observes, /lie resembles themixed nature of this animal; "becoming dark through her par≠ticipation of earth, and deriving her proper light from the fun."



*



 NOTES ON THE



‚Ä¢jfttf flB IJJODff* TO OTO>t^=-ai, liXwj h TO OMIOJ UX^^EKU nuHj



silt ov? otxiwlixi Tpo; aJIijy ¬ª n^tioio.;.



Page . Homer."] Iliad, lib. xiii. v. . in Mr. Pope'stranslation, lin. . and Iliad, xvi. v. . in Pope's Homer,v. . The Greek Scholiast on these verses informs us thatHercules was crowned with the leaves of the poplar tree, forhaving vanquished Cerberus.



Page . Pindar.] In his first Olympic ode. The Scholiaston this passage observes, that Diana was loved by Alpheus, andthat, on this account, one altar was raised to both in Olymp'a.Hence Diana was called Alpheioa.



Page . Opportunity.] Proclus, in MS. Comment, in Alci-biadem, informs us, that the Pythagoreans called the first cause,from which all things are supplied with good, Opportunity; be≠cause it is to this that all things owe the perfection of theirnature.



Page . // it evident, therefore, that this is an appellation ofJupiter.] ft appears to me however, that by the leader of theParca we must understand Venus. For in the Orphic hymnto that goddess, it is expressly said of her, that '*Jhe rules overthe Parete:



Kii xpc*!i¬´i{ Tpi<r<*¬ª ftotf¬´¬ª.



Page . Of Muses gracefully around him fland.~\ The following;account of the Muses is from the Scholia of Proclus on the Craty-lus: " The whole world is bound in indissoluble bonds from Apolloand the Muses, and is both one and all-perfect, through the com≠munications of these divinities ; possessing the former through theApolloniacal monad*, but its all-perfect subsistence through thenumber of the Muses. For the number nine, which is generatedfrom the first perfect number, (that is, three) is, through



‚Ä¢ By a monad in divine natures, is meant that which contains di/linfr,-but at the fame time profoundly-united multitude, and which produces amultitude exquisitely allied to itself.



 final-



SECOND VOLUME. strj



similitude and sameness, accommodated to the multiform causesof the mundane order and harmony; all these causes at the fametime being collected into one summit for the purpose of produ≠cing one consummate perfection; for the Muses generate thevariety of reasons with which the world is replete; but Apollocomprehends in union all the multitude of these. And theMuses give subsidence to the harmony of foul j but Apollois the leader of intellectual and indivisible harmony. TheMuses distribute the ph√¶nomena according to harmonical rea≠sons: but Apollo comprehends unapparent and separate har≠mony. And though both give subsistence to the same things,yet the Muses effect this according to number, but Apollo ac≠cording to union. And the Muses indeed distribute the unity ofApollo: but Apollo unites and contains harmonic multitude.:for the multitude of the Muses proceeds from the essence ofMusagetes, which is both separate, and subsists according to the



nature of the one."



Page . And they are employedagreeahle to Hostler's description



os them.'] The passage alluded to by Paufanias is in the tenth



book of the Odyssey, v. , &c. and is thua translated by



Mr, Pope:



Ministrant to their queen with busy care,Four faithful handmaids the soft rites preparejNymphs sprung from fountains, or from shady woods,Or the fair offspring of the sacred floods.One o'er the couches painted carpets threw,Whose purple lustre glow'd against the vieVf White linen lay beneath. Another plac'dThe silver stands with golden flaskets grac'd:With dulcet bev'rage this the beaker crown'd jFair in the midst, with gilded cups around:That in the tripod o'er the kindled pileThe water pours; the bubbling waters bcil:An ample vase receives the smoking wave;And ia the bath prepar'd my limbs I lave,



But



 



 NOTES ON THE



But in order to understand who the Homeric Circe is, it is ne¬´cessary to observe, that the ancient theologists, when they repre≠sent divine natures, as employed in the exercise of certain arts,means to ininuate by such arts producing, prolific, inttllcBual, andperseQ'vvepowers, which proceed from the gods into the universe;all the parts of which are nothing more than illuminations ofthese powers. This being premised, "Circe (says Proclus inhis Scholia on the Cratylus) is that divine power which weavesall the life contained in the four elements, and at the fame timeby her song harmonizes the whole sublunary world. But theshuttle with which she weaves, is represented by theologists asgolden, because her essence is intellectual, pure, immaterial, andunmingled with generation; all which is signified by the shuttlebeing golden. And her employment consists in separating*things stable from such as are in motion, according to divinediversity." . I only add, that Homer with great propriety re≠presents Circe, who presides over the sublunary world, or therealms of geneiation, as waited on by Nymphs sprung fromfountains: for Nympha,tsays Hermias (Comment. MS. in Flat.Ph√¶drum), are goddesses presiding over regeneration, and arethe attendants of Bncchus the son of 'Semele. On this accountthey are present with water; that is, they ascend as it were into,and rule over generation. But this Dionysius or Bacchus sup≠plies the regeneration of every sensible nature. tiv/ifo* h umiif oki Shu tH{ 'hiyyi'tai?.; imvsym tow m Zipita; Aravtfw, Jio <tjxufx Tip t'Jali im, tovt tfi tij ymm ariptfSnxjtin. wlos it e Aunn;



Page . For a icy belongs to Pluto.'] Pluto is a deity of aguardian characteristic; and of this a key is a very proper sym≠bol. But the following beautiful account of this divinity, fromthe Scholia of Proclus on the Cratylus, will I doubt not be high≠ly acceptable to the truly liberal reader: "Pluto is an intellec≠tual demiurgic god, who frees fouls from generation. For our* for the shuttle is a symbol of Jtfartfin^ fewer. 



whole



SECOND VOLUME. %it



w hole period receiving , a triple division, into a life under thedominion of Jupiter, which is prior to generation, into a lifeunder the dominion of Neptune, and which is in generation,Pluto, who is characterized according to intellect, with greatpropriety converts ends to beginnings, forming a circle withouta beginning or an end, not only in fouls, but in bodies. Thusfor instance, he eternally evolves the circulations of the stars, themotions of things in generation, and the like. But some erro≠neously analyse the name of Pluto into wealth from the earth,through fruits and metals; and of Aides*, into the obscure, dark,and terrible. These are now censured by Socrates, who assignsthe fame meaning to these two names; referring Pluto, as intel≠lect, to the tvealth of prudence, and Aides to an intellect whichknows all things. For this god is a sophists, who purifies foulsafter death, and frees them from generation. For Aides, or, thtobscure, is not, as some erroneoufly interpret it, evil; since neitheris death an evil, though Aides appears to some to be full of per≠turbation. But every thing intelligible is obscure; and in thisfense Aides is better than every visible nature. The lovers ofbody however, who viciously refer the passions of the animatedpart to themselves, consider death as something terrible; and asthe cause of corruption: but in reality it i much better for a manto die, and live in Hades according to nature, than to live withbody contrary to nature, and prevented from energizing intel≠lectually. Hence, it is necessary to strip ourselves of the flesti Jwith which we are invested, as Ulysses did of his torn garments,and not, together with the indigence of body, clothe ourselveswith that which resembles the vestment of a mendicant. "For(as the Oracle fays) things divine cannot be obtained by those whoseintellectual eye is direScd to body j but those only can arrive at the



* One of Pluto's names.



f The reader must be careful to consider the word Sophist in this placein its primary sense, viz. one wise and learned.X i. e. We must purify ourselves from a tendency to body.



Vol. III. Y fos.



" NOTES ON THE



ssston 'if thtm, -who, Jir'ipt os "their garments, hajlen to the sum≠mit."



Page . Ton -will see elegies inscribed an the rejl.~\ Pausaniatfrequently uses the word Aiyii&n elegy, in the fame fense at in-y^ipi/.*, an epigram or inscription. It appears, therefore, thatthis word has a more extended fense than it is generally knownto have. Hence, in conformity to the original, I have here andelsewhere used the word elegies, as fynonimous with inscriptions.Whether or not this fense of the word has been noticed by anyLexicographer, I am not certain: it is not noticed by eitherSuidas or Hesychius.



Page . And its right hand thunder."] As Jupiter is the Demi-vrgus, or arfficsr of the universe, his statue very properly holdsthunder in one of its hands: for thunder, as we learn from Pro-clus, is a symbol of fabrication, proceeding through and vivifyingall things, without injuring the purity of its nature.



Page . Jupiter Laoetas."] i. e. The god of the people.



Page . Homer indeed relates, csV.] The passages of Homeralluded to by Paufanias are in Iliad . ver. . and Iliad . ver., &c. The former of these passages may be thus translated:



Fairest of mortals, GanyraeJ divine,Who for his beauty by the gods was snatch'dFrom earth to heav'n, that he might bear the cupOf Jove, and with the blest immortals dwell.



The latter is thus translated by Mr. Pope:



Swift to √Üneas' empty feat prexeed,



And seize the coursers of ethereal breed:



The race of those, which once the thundering goi



For ravish'd Ganymede on Tros bestow'd,



The best that e'er on earth's broad surface run,



Beneath the rising or the setting sun.



But Ganymedes is the image of a man who leads an immaterialand intellectual life, instead of one wholly conversant with bodyand sense. Hence he is said to be the cup-bearer of Jupiter,



because



SECOND VOLUME. 



because such a man co-operates in a mints.rant degree with theimmutable providential energies of that deity. For nectar, whichis the drink of the gods, signifies the exertion of immutableprovidence, and its procession to the extremity of things. Thetruth of this is beautifully though obscurely signified by Ho≠mer in the following lines, which form the beginning of thefourth book of the Iliad:



Oi i ( Tits Inn X - - r:/--;'.i nyoftufio



Nixlap la'^t^of^‚Ä¢ Te* $i xgv&Mi drawer*Ae.Ji^aT u'.:,.r~. oi -;, Tpai¬ª¬´ iro?.¬ª iieropoaiirlff.



i. e.



"Now with each other on the golden floorSeated near Jove, the gods converse, to whomThe venerable Hebe nectar bearsIn golden goblets, and as these flow roundTh' immortals turn their careful eyes on Troy."



For here their possession of immutable providence is signifiedby their diinking nectar; the exertion of this providence, bytheir beholding Troy; and their communicating with eachother in providential energies, by receiving the goblets fromeach other.



Page . Homer.'] Iliad . ver. .



Page . Hippias.] The reader who wishes to fee the arro≠gance of this sophist humbled in the most masterly manner, willfind his wishes amply gratified, if he possesses any taste, by read≠ing the Greater Hippias of Plato, of which there is an excellenttranslation by Mr. Sydenham.



Page . They /ay that this birdis sacred to the fun.'] "Thereare many solar animals, such as lions and cods, which participateof a certain solar divinity, according to their nature; fromwhence it is wonderful to fee how much inferiors in the fameorder yield to such as are superior, though they do not yield tothem in magnitude and strength. Hence they say that a cock isY  %ery



 NOTES ON THE



very much seared, and as it were reverenced by a lion; the rea≠son of which we can never aflign from matter or sense, but fromthe contemplation alone of a supernal order. For from hencewe (hall learn, that the properties of the fun are more abun≠dantly received by the cock than the lion. And the truth ofthis is evinced from hence, that the cock celebrates, and as itwere invokes the rising sun, by his crowing, as if with certainhymns, when that luminary bends his course from the antipodesto us; and that sometimes solar angels appear in forms of thiskind; and though they are in themselves without form, yet theyappear with it, to us who are connected with figure. Sometimes,too, solar d√¶mons are seen with a leonine front, who suddenlydisappear when a cock is placed before them. The reason ofthis is, because, in the same order, inferiors always reverence theirsuperiors j just as the greater part of those that behold theimages of divine men, are by the very aspect of these imagesterrified from perpetrating any thing base."



Proclus De Magia.



Page . Herodotus.] Lib. vii.



Page . For the Lydiens tvho are called Persic."] Kuhniusobserves that the Perfic Lydians were denominated from the Per≠sian sacred rites pertaining to Mithras, which rites principallyflourished in the Lydian cities Hieroc√¶sarea and Hypaepa.



Page . A magician entering into this cell, &c] The follow≠ing curious account of magical incantation, from a very rareGreek MS. of Pscllus, On Damons according to the Dogmata of theCreeks, will, I doubt not, be acceptable to the rjader, as it eluci≠dates the passage of Pausanias before us, and sliews that magic isnot an empty name, but possesses a real power, though at presentthis art seems to be totally lost. ¬ªj ymltux. tr¬ª ""X" T,s ¬´"*P¬ª T"ttwXovi; k -  Wot - Saificyaf ^aylapv axosrofcra to¬ª¬£ Ero?ra($ Ta Teflwci-c" ‚ñ† ma Ti Vi f. a aiTTiy e¬£ aJv jti a \ ,l j a , Tot's - mJ/o^Er xccla^vj-a^ nauto'SIcvf xaxfcliKOUf. x¬´i imWXA aria v¬£ipift ftolatr/xala TOif tW,-tt; Tf¬ªToils,?, xai Tot; *) {ED|¬´a!# T¬ª¬ª (xiivf j xfft¬´iw¬ª!a tirccf weV t¬´s Surgut



 



SECOND VOLUME. 



Unfits % r(v(pct(, mi ^apilaf i¬´ayJi%Xiiiu. mcyiKU tt rat; Toiavlaj



tm; iXXmriy ijofi. /itsi&* yovt iwai t*J?u¬ª ^a<ri¬ª i^alttv TU{ i!{*ixn{ imr-r/xji,-. aji^rreotwa yap rm usro t¬ªiv ai>j*wM wailvt tm te owt¬´¬ª xj f imv,xui iutotjui xj Troiolrjla. X¬´y¬´ s-¬∞ip¬£HOT xj TWTt/L>y ptift&iry, ^w, srar-l*&MPVf fvlmi, xj tuv tvlsi'Siy xctprm, Xivy, CsUwOTi xj otwAw; iinriiy,OTajlo? TTfxyficai, vmorxtrw rt x) SvtXfili. lyliuSiy ap* T¬ª ixvlr, - ipya^slxt.oyaXfu&iTE opipi^iy uyiof sripiTOiijIixa, xai %¬ª(xax ironHcu va-iloSama'xfltt vQffwiroict &n{Jt.iQVfyri[Jt&la tlipa. xcw at^t* /acf, xat JpastoylEf,¬´tilo¬ª; c-poj yyiiay tioro&eo-i;' aAoi/po* }i xai xuoyt;, xai xojaxij aryfvmafltxacv/sGoXx. xnpot Ji xai irt;\{ n; T¬´{ T<*¬ª fiopiwy ov^'nrA.wnij irap¬´Xa(/i¬£<t-joylai. <pa.u-/.Cu oe vaTOJum, Trrptj ovpaviot; i>Jofi{, xai JiaaciSiwo-i twtT&flwy ayaPlfiala' ttu;i Js au¬´ .,¬´"¬´ a¬´(*¬´>*J¬´ That is,



"Goeleia, or witchcraft, is a certain art respecting material andterrestrial d√¶mons, whose images it causes to become visible tothe spectators of this art. And some of these d√¶mons it leadsup, as it were from Hades; but others it draws down from onhigh; and these, too, such as are of an evil species. This arttherefore causes certain phantqstic images to appear before the fpetla-tors. And before the eyes of some, indeed, it pours exuberantstreams: but to others it promises freedom from bonds, deli≠cacies, and favours. They draw down too powers of this kindby songs and incantations. But Magic, according to the Greeks,is a thing of a: very powerful nature. For they fay that this formsthe last part of the sacerdotal science. Magic indeed investigatesthe nature, power, and quality of every thing sublunary; viz.of the elements and their parts, of animals, all-various plants,and their fruits, of stones, and herbs :\and in lhort it exploresthe essence and power of every thing. From hence, therefore,it produces its effects. And it forms statues which procurehealth, makes all-various figures, and things which become theinstruments of disease. It asserts too, that eagles and dragonscontribute to health; but that cats, dogs, and crows, are sym≠bols of vigilance, to which therefore they contribute. But



Y  for



i NOTES" ON THE



for the fashioning of certain parts, wax and clay are used. Often,too, celestial fire is made to appear through magic: and thenstatues laugh, and lamps are spontaneously enkindled."



This curious passage throws light on the following from thefirst book of the Metamorphoses of Apuleius i "Magico su-surramine, amnes agiles reverti, mare pigrum colligari, vent¬ªsinanimes expirare, solem inhiberi, lunam despumari, ilellas evelli,diem tolli, noctem teneri." That is, "By magical incan≠tation, rapid rivers may be made to run back to their foun≠tains, the sluggish sea be congealed, winds become destitute ofspirit, the sun be held back in his course, the moon be forced topurge away her foam, the stars be torn from their orbits, theday be taken away, and the night be detained." For it maybeinferred from Psellus, that witches formerly were able to causethe appearance of all this to take place. I only add, that thisMS. of Psellus On Demons forms no part of his treatise Onthe Energy of Damons, published by Gaulminus; for it never wagpublished.



Page^S. Pindar.] In his tlr Olympic ode, where Jamus issaid to have been the son of Apollo and Euadne.



Page . Homer.] The passage of Homer alluded to byPausanias, islliad . v. . in which Andromache fays to Hector,



" man divine, thy strength will be thy bane,"



Page . Then follows Oorgias the Lcontine.~\ Of this Gor-gias Plato thus speaks in the Ph√¶drus: "But shall we sufferLysias and Gorgiai to sleep, who placed probabilities beforerealities; and, through the strength of their discourse, causedsmall things to appear large, and the large small; likewise oldthings new, and the new old; and who besides this discovered aconcise method of speaking, and again a¬ª infinite prolixity ofwords?"



Page . Elaphias.] The reader is desired to read Elapbiot.This word signifies March,



 



SECOND VOLUME. *



i



Page . The child became a dragon.'] This dragon must:have been one of those d√¶mons xara <rxi<r"t or according lo habi≠tude, of whom we have made mention in a former note: for theseare capable of assuming a variety of shapes, whereas ejfential d√¶≠mons retain the fame shape immutably.



Page J. Wild beasts folio-wed Orpheus, and stones came to Am-phion.] Nothing more perhaps is meant by this fable, than thatOrpheus and Amphion by their great wisdom civilized men of astubborn, intractable, and rustic disposition, and accomplished thisby persuading them to build cities, and pay bbedience to equitablelaws. For philosophy, or the whole of human ‚Ä¢wisdom, is, as Platobeautifully observes in the Ph√¶do, the greatest music.



Page . Homer,,] Iliad j. ver. .



Page . IVitb -which Jhe -wot accustomed to be present.] Inmy Dissertation on the Eleusinian Mysteries, I have demonstra≠tively shewn that the most sublime part of nrorlita, orinjpeflion, inthese mysteries consisted in beholding the gods themselves in≠vested with a resplendent light. It appears from the presentpassage, that in the mysteries of Diana that goddess was renderedvisible to the eyes of the initiated; and in the following passagefrom Proclus (in Plat. Repub. p. ) we learn that the godswere seen in all mysteries. i¬ª airao-i Tat; riXmu< ¬´c) rots u.v^v>h,



 Slot TtXAa; pi> tavritt Vftnmvo-t ptog^a;, woXka it o/tiu-oliuX<zto¬ªjI{ pauntrat. uu toti amirwrot avrm argsCtCtaiTat fvf, totici ft; af^UTTiior po^ijy f?;¬£i}/A¬´Ti?/Afyoy, toti.^i it,- aAAotcr tvxov w^oiXij-?.owf. i. e. " In all mystic sacrifices and mysteries, the godsexhibit many forms of themselves, and appear in a variety ofshapes: and sometimes indeed an unfigured light of themselvesis held forth to the view; sometimes this light is figured accord≠ing to a human form, and sometimes it proceeds into a different‚Ä¢shape." The beginning too of Callimachus's hymn to Apolloplainly shews that Apollo was beheld in his mysteries;



Y  Om*



NOTES ON THE



Oicy o t¬ª' mtot/Hi-i<¬´¬ªo-<¬ªTo Ja<pmo; o^-rr'jOia.  oho* to fuAodfO*. ixcte, txaj - aXffjHf.Keu it) tov ~.u SufiTga xciKa mis <po¬£r>; aeaa-m,Oup¬£ o^aac; ivaivcnt  irj.toe ijJuli po.yi¬£E|attr,¬´i;,  t xvxro; f. rf;i x>*¬ªr khJh.Awtoi my jca.j^¬ªiff ayaxAmo-St iruXsutfv,Aurai & xKnthi;'  yag Sfo; bxiti f/axfai.Oi ?! >tM fioXTnii' ti xj ¬´{ XP* ‚ñ†rruyii&t.O' m>.>r> oi> ravn fiaeivsT≈ìt, a\>,' , lif ic&?.oc.O; /uuy fwyat /T  oux *ito{ ikeuo;.



O^O/ii!)**! ExaSf xj ICffOftlS' tftrolf XiTSI.



M>jTt ct¬´ x¬ª?*piyy ^mr* onj/opcy *^W



ToU $i@OV VC vaihcl^ ?JC"' ¬´"'lJ¬ªft¬ª,¬´¬ªTo;.



These lines are thus elegantly translated by Dr. Dodd:



See how the laurel's hallow'd brnnshes wave!Hark! sounds tumultuous (hake the trembling cave IFar, ye profane! far off !‚ÄîWith beautetus feetBrigtt Phoebus comes, and thunders at the gate;See! the glad sign the Delian palm hath giv'n;Sudden it b¬´nds: and, hov'ring in the heav'n,Seft sings the swan with melody divine:Burst ope, ye bars! ye gates, your heads decline!Decline your heads! ye sacred doors, expand!"He comes! the god of light! the god's at band!Begin the song; and tread the .sacred groundIn mystic dance symphonious to the found.Begin, young men! Apollo's eyes endureNone but the good, the perfect, and the pure;IVbo view the god tire great; but abject theyTrent whom he turns hit favouring eyes muay;All-piercing god! in every place confess'd,We will prepare, behold thee, and be bless'J;lie comes, young men! nor silent Jhouldye standWith harp erfttt, when Ph≈ìbus u at hand. ,



 



SECOND VOLUME. 



So likewise Virgil, in his th √Üneid, describes this uriJufua,or advent of Apollo:



As when from Lycia, bound in wintry frost,



Where Xanthus'streams enrich the smiling coast,



Vbe beauteous Pbabus in bigb pomp retires,



And bears in Delos the triumphant choirs,



The Cretan crowds and Dryopes advance,



And painted Scythians round his altars dance:



Fair wreaths of vivid rays his head infold,



His locks bound backward, and adorn'd with gold;



The god majestic moves o'er Cynthus' brows,



His golden quiver rattling as he goes.



Pitr.



The adytum too of temples was the place in which the divi≠nities appeared to the eyes of such as were properly prepared forso transcendent a vision, as the following passage from Plotinujevinces (Ennead. . lib. ix. p. .).‚Äîwbttij t¬ª{ h; to ho-u t*u aJu-T*¬ª, uc tHwiau vnzaXsicm ta itra ¬ªia ayaXpxTa, ¬£ ijiktun tov aJ¬´-t¬´i/ zuAtr ymrai waata fxna to i¬ªIo¬ª Siapa, kJ tuv ikii avmvtrutr, ~.-o;an ayeApa tfi' u-owt, ¬´¬ª' utif>. i. e. "Just as one who havingentered into the most interior parts of the adytum of a temple,leaves all the statues in the temple behind him (which on his de¬ªpasture from the adytum will first present themselves to his viewafter the inward spectacle), and then associates not with a statueor an image, but with the thing itself; viz. with a divine nature."From all which the truth of what Pscllus asserts, in the passagealready cited from his book On D√¶mons, " that magic formed thelast part of the jtictrdotal oJJHcc among the Greek* " is I presumeperfectly apparent.



Page . That of the moon has horns on its head.'] Thesehorns were doubtless those of a bull. For the moon, in the Or≠phic hymn to her, is called hull-horned; and Porphyry De AntroNymph, informs us, that the ancient priests of Ceres called themoon, who is the queen of generation, a bull.



Page



NOTES ON THE



Page . Homer.] Iliad r. ver. . It is remarkable thatnot one of the translators of Homer has noticed the manner inwhich the Eleatis understood the :v -.vyjj in one of these lines.For by the Latin translators It is rendered ad portam inferorum,i. c. at the gate of the infernal regions; and the English harefollowed the Latin translators. However, as the ancients mustbe supposed to have understood the meaning of particular wordsin Homer better than the moderns, there can be no doubt butthat the Eleans were right when they considered i¬ª m^u as signi≠fying in Pylus.



Page . Corybas.] We are informed by the emperorJulian in his Oration to the Mother of the Gods, that Corybas itthe Sun,



Page . There is a cock on the helmet of the goddess.'} Thetrue reason perhaps why Phidias placed a cock on the helmet ofMinerva, is because this goddess, as we have shewn in a formernote, was called by the ancients Health; and a cock is sacred to√Üsculapius, who is the god of health.



Page . Homer.'] Iliad . ver. .



Page . Is an erect penis on a basis.] The reason why Mer≠cury was represented by the ancients in this manner, is, as it ap≠pears to me, because this deity unfolds truth and intellectuallight, from its occult subsistence in the essence of the gods: justas that prolific power which is latent in feed is unfolded by thepenis.



Page . Homer.], Iliad . ver. .



Page . Homer.] Lib. xviii. near the end, in the descrip≠tion of the shield of Achilles.



Page . // is an accurate representation of an √Ügyptian sta≠tue.] We are informed by Poiphyry De Antro Nymph, thatthe √Ügyptians placed all demons, not connected with any thingsolid or stable, but raised on a sailing vessel. By this they doubt≠less iutended to signify the connexion of these powers with the



 flowing



 



SECOND VOLUME. t



flowing realms of generation. And hence we may infer that thestatue mentioned in this place by Pausanias was an image of atUmoniacal Minerva.



Page . Afire there it than other Jiret more fierce."] Kuhniutobserves, that this proverb is mentioned Jay Plutarch, in his Lifeof Demetrius; by Homer, Odyssey ; and by Aristophanes inEquit.



Page . When he says, Plato speaks to this effect in



the th book of his Republic.



Page . The mother Dindymene and Attet,~\ Dindymcnesignifies Cybele, or the mother of the gods. But the fable respect≠ing this goddess and Attes, or rather Attis (for so it is writtenby Harpocration, Suidas, the emperor Julian, and the philoso≠pher Sallust), is beautifully unfolded by Sallust in his goldentreatise On the Gods and the World, chap. . as follows: "It issaid that the mother of the gods, perceiving Attis by the riverGallus, became in love with him; and having placed on him astarry hat, lived afterwards with him in intimate familiarity: butAttis falling in love with a nymph, deserted the mother of thegods, and entered into association with the nymph. Throughthis the mother of the gods caused Attis to become insane, whocutting off his genital parts left them with the nymph, and thenreturned again to his pristine connexion with the goddess.



"The mother of the gods then is the vivisic goddess, and onthis account is called mother  but Attis is the demiurgusof na≠tures conversant with generation and corruption ; and hence he issaid to have been found by the river Gallus, for Gallus denotesthe Galaxy, or milky circle, from which a passive body descendsto the earth, But since primary gods perfect such as are se≠condary, the mother of the gods falling in love with Attis im≠parts to him celestial powers; for this is the meaning of thestarry hat. But Attis loves a nymph, and nymphs preside overgeneration; for every thing in generation flows. But becauseit is necessary that the flowing nature of generation should be



stopped,



NOTES ON THE



stopped, lest something worse than things last mould be pro≠duced; in order to accomplish this, the demiurgus of generableand corruptible nature, sending prolific powers into the realms ofgeneration, is again conjoined with the gods.



"But these things indeed never took place at any particulartime, because they have a perpetuity of subsistence: and intel≠lect contemplates all things as subsisting together; but discourseconsiders this thing as first, and that as second, in the order osexistence." For a further explanation of tlu's fable, which beingof the mixed species, belongs, as we are informed by Sallust, tomysticsacrifices, fee my translation of the emperor Julian's Orationto the Mother of the Gods.



Page . Homer.'] Iliad . ver. . The reader mustcarefully observe, that the Neptune and Apollo mentioned inthese verses were heroes, and not gods. With respect to the statueof Apollo standing on the skull of an ox, the meaning of this willbe apparent from considering, that as the moon (as we have al≠ready shewn from Porphyry) is the queen of generation, Apollo, orthe fun, who is paternally all that the moon is maternally, mustbe the king of generation, of which a bull or an ox is a symbol.Hence his treading on the head of an ox signifies his dominionover the realms of generation, and particularly over its summit,ether.



Page . The oracle in Dodona.] Jupiter's oracle at Dodonawas the most ancient of all the oracles of Greece prior to theFlood,and was restored by Deucalion after it. The Scholiast uponthe th Iliad, v. , &c. informs us from a very ancient author,Thrasybulus, that Deucalion after the Flood, which happened inhis time, having got safe upon the firm land of Epirus, prophe≠sied in an oak; and by the admonition of an oraculous dovehaving gathered together such as were saved from the flood,caused them to dwell together in a certain place or country, whichfrom Jupiter, and Dodaiia, one of the Oceanides, they called Do≠dona. At Dodona there were brazen kettles, which it is said



were



SECOND VOLUME. 



were so artificially placed about the temple, that by striking oneof them the sound was communicated to all the rest. Accordingto Menander, if a man touched them but once they would con≠tinue ringing the whole day.



But it appear! to me, that the reason why brass was dedicatedin particular to Dodonean Jupiter, is because this deity subsistsaccording to a terrestrial characteristic; and brass, as we learnfrom Proclus, is a symbol of a resisting solid, or of earth. Forearth receives the illuminations of all the gods. "And hence(fays Proclus in Tim. p. ) there are a terrestrial Ceres,Vesta, and Isis, as likewise a terrestrial Jupiter and a terrestrialHermes, established about the one divinity of the earth; just as amultitude of celestial gods proceeds about the one divinity of theheavens. For there are progrejfiont os all the celestial gods Into theearth; and earth contains all things In an earthly manner, whichheaven comprehends celestially. Hence we speak of a terrestrialBacchus and a terrestrial Apollo, who bestows the all-variousstreams of water with which the earth abounds, and openingsprophetic of futurity." Brass indeed was employed by the an≠cients, as we learn from the Scholiast on Theocritus (Eidyl. ),'in all consecrations and expiations, because they considered it assomething pure, and endued with a power of expelling pollutions.And Eustathius upon this line in the th book of the Iliad,



tx itoutoio v{a¬£i hwu ¬´J unm xabxii‚Äî



i. C



Forth from the deep with line and vocal Irajt^



observes, M that Homer makes use of the word that is



oomot, which signifies vocal, because brass is the only inanimatesubstance which seems to have a voice. And the Pythagoreansfay, that brass accords with every diviner spirit; ar.d hence a tri≠pod formed from this metal is dedicated to Apollo. Often toowhen the air is perfectly tranquil, and every thing else is still,hollow kettles will appear to be as it were shaken.".



 NOTES ON THE



nioza. Xiyn to¬ª ¬£¬ªra, o - ip^um, /tons ya% iut a.\vyyi Sam ¬£; -,*,i^iij. ¬´tj o> yuSa^cjixoi f>¬´wi to¬ª j^aXxm Turn avm%ui $ucrt(¬ª vsu-



fAXTI, ho Kj til AvOAXM! TfMSOU; TOMVTO; aiaxlITOU. ¬´J II IDII^MI C!



But Hermias the philosopher, in his MS. Commentary on thePhxdrus of Plato, gives us the following satisfactory informationrespecting the oracle in Dodona. The reader who is desirousof seeing the original of this passage, may find it in page  ofthe Collection of Oracles by Opsopoeus. "Different accountsare given of the Dodonean oracle; for it is the most ancient ofthe Grecian oracles. According to some, an oak prophesied inDodona; but according to others, doves. The truth howeveris, that priestesses whose heads were crowned with oak prophe≠sied ; and these women were called by some peleiades, or doves.Perhaps therefore certain persons being deceived by the name,suspected that doves prophesied in Dodona; and as the headsof these women were crowned with oak, perhaps from this cir≠cumstance they said that an oak prophesied. But this oraclebelongs to Jupiter, and that in Delphos to Apollo. With greatpropriety therefore are these oracles considered as allied to eachother. For Apollo is said to be the assistant of Jupiter in theadministration of things: and often when the Dodonean oracleappeared to be obscure, the oracle in Delphos has been consulted,in order to know the meaning of that of Jupiter. Often tooApollo has interpreted many of the Dodonean oracles. Priest≠esses, therefore, when in an enthusiastic and prophetic condition,nave greatly benefited mankind by predicting and previously cor≠recting future events; but when in a prudent state, they weresimilar to other women."



Page . Homcr.~\ Iliad . ver. .



Page . One of the nymphs belonging to the sea sell in lovetuilh him.] We have (hewn in a foimer note, that the last orderof powers that are the perpetual attendants of the gods, and theproximate guardians of mortal natures, has a great sympathy



with



SECOND VOLUME. 



with the objects of its care. It is not at all improbable there≠fore that a nymph of the sea was connected with Selemus, whowhen he died attracted to himself through intemperate desire avehicle perfectly humid, by which he became bound as it wereto a certain stream, and was therefore said to have been changedinto a river by Venus.



Page . He cut offthe genitals of his father Heaven.'} Theauthors of fables invented images of divine concerns in Imitationof Nature, who shadows forth by parts things destitute ofall parts, by temporal eternal natures, by dimensions thing!void of quantity, by sensibles intelligibles, and so on. Forthese divine men by preternatural concerns adumbrated the trans-tendent nature of the gods; by such as ar: irrational, a power moredivine than all reason; and by things apparently base, incorporealbeauty. Hence, in the fable alluded to in this place by Pausanias,we must consider the genital parts as symbols ofprolific power; andthe castration of these parts, as signifying the progression of thispower into a subject order. So that the fable means, that the pro-lisic powers of Heaven are called forth into progression by Saturn,who is a deity of an inferior order. The utility arising fromfables of this kind, to such as properly understand them, is verygreat. For they call forth our unperverted conceptions of divinenatures, give a greater perfection to the divine part of our soul,through its sympathy with mystic concerns, heal the maladies ofour phantasy, and elevate it in conjunction with our rational partto supernal light.



Page . Earthquakes."} Earthquakes, war, pestilence, fa≠mine, and other contingencies, are employed by divinity as thelesser means of purifying parts' of the earth; the greater mean*are deluges and conflagrations.



Page . Homer.'} Iliad . ver. .



Page . Homer.} Iliad . ver. .



Page . For at that time, men were guests ofthe gods.} That



J NOTES ON THE



Is, they led a divine and intellectual life, as belonging to thegolden race.



Page . Homer.'} Odyss. j. ver. ^



Page . For the Arcadians call their Naiades, Dryades andEpimeliadcs. Servius on the first √Üneid distributes Nymphs intothese classes: Nymphs belonging to mountains are called Oreades;to woods, Dryades; those that are lorn with ivoodi, Hamadry-ades; those that belong to fountains. Nap*, or Naiades; andthose that belong to the sea, Nereides. The Naiades are mentionedby Homer, Odyss. . ver. . For an account of th¬´seprefects of fountains, I refer the reader to my translation ofPorphyry's treatise On the Cave of the Nymphs.



Page . Venus Melanis, or, the black.] There can be nodoubt but that Celestial Venus is signified by this epithet, andthat she was thus denominated because she proceeds from thtgoddess Night. For she proceeds, as we hate shewn in a formesnote, frc:n the containing power of Heaven, which according tothe Orphic theology is profoundly united with Night. Hence,Night in the Orphic hymn to her is called Ki/cr^t, Cypru, i. e,Venus.



Page . But the goddess told Saturn that Jhe had broughtforth a colt, tsV.] The secret meaning of these two divinefables respecting Jupiter and Neptune appears to me to be asfollows: Saturn, who is an intellectual god, as we have before \observed, establishes in himself the cause of motive vigour; andthrough this Neptune acquires the perfection of his nature. For ahorse, as we have (hewn in a former note, is an image of motive vi≠gour; and Neptune is a deity who evoeates things into progression.And this is the meaning of Saturn swallowing a coll, while Nep¬ªtune was privately taken away in order to be reared. In likemanner, while Saturn establishes in himself the cause of an abidingenergy, Jnpiler advances to perfection; because Jupiter subsists ac≠cording to a vitally-abiding characteristic," Hence Homer repre≠sents



SECOND VOLUME. 



sents Jupiter estaUfffied In himself, while the multitude of godsthat proceed from him, at one time abide with their parent, andat another proceed into the universe, and providentially energizeabout mundane affairs. And this appears to be the meaning ofthe other fable. Pausanias, therefore, is very right in conjectur≠ing that these sables respecting Saturn contain something of thewisdom of the Greeks; for they arc indeed replete with thefublimest wisdom, as the intelligent reader will easily perceive.



Page . Homer."] Iliad . v. . and Iliad .V. , Sec.



Page . Hesiod'indeedin his Theogony mates mention of Styx.]The lines alluded to in the Theogony are , &c. It appearsto me that Styx, considered according to its first subsistence, isthe cause by which divine natures retain an immutable samenessof essence. It is somewhat strange that Pausanias should bedubious whether Hesiod composed the Theogony, when it iicited as the production of Hesiod by Plato and Aristotle.



Page . Homer.] The passage respecting the oath of Junois Iliad . v. ; concerning Titaresius, Iliad . v.  ; andconcerning the preservation of Hercules by Minerva, Iliad .v. .



Page . Homer."] Homer in the eleventh Iliad uses the wordMXhSvmhi . e. Lucina.



Page . That Jhe is the fame with Pepromene or Faie.] Pin≠dar, in his seventh Nemcan Ode, says that Lucina is the assessorof the Fates: and this is agreeable to the doctrine in the Orphichymns. For the moon, or Diana, is according to these hymnsthe fame with Lucina: and in the hymn to Nature, which, as wehave before shewn, principally flourishes in the moon, that god≠dess is expressly called Pepromene.



Page . Homer.'] Iliad . v. .



By the two vessels placed by the throne of Jupiter, out ofwhich he distributes good and evil to mankind, we must under≠stand the two primary causes of good and evil to fouls, whichsubsist in the intellect of Jupiter. I only add, that a truly wor-



Vol. III. Z' thy



¬ª NOTES ON THE



thy man may be truly happy in the present life; and for a de¬´monf.ration of this important truth, I refer the reader to mytranslation of Plotinut on Felicity.



Page . From the Iliad."] Lib. xxiii. v. .



Nothing can be more absurd than the fable which these versesallude to, if it is considered according to its literal meaning, atthe fame time that it is extremely beautiful when properly un≠derstood. In order therefore to understand its secret meaning,it is necessary to remind the reader of what I have before ob≠served, that the processions of a divine nature to the extremityof things, according to different orders and degrees, were sym≠bolically called, by ancient thcologifls mutations. Hence, byNeptune and Ceres changing themselves, the former into a horse,and the latter into a mare, and from connection with each otherbegetting the horse Arion, nothing more is meant, than that ad√¶mon iacal Neptune and a dxmoniacal Ceres co-operated withthe nat.iral causes by which this animal was produced, in beget≠ting him.



Page . Antimachus.] This Greek poet was a Colopho-.nian. He wrote on the age and country of Homer; and, ac≠cording to Plutarch, contended that Homer was his countryman.



Page . Homer."] Iliad . v. .



Page . Minerva in the form of Ale/as."} By Minerva here,we must understand a d√¶moniacal power, belonging to the god≠dess Minerva, but of the lowest order.



Page . The battle between the giant  and the gods, CsV.] Bygiants in the fable alluded to here by Paufanias, ancient the-ologists occultly signified the last order of dzmoniacal powers,who on account of their proximity to the natures over whichthey preside, and adhering to matter, contract contrariety, andan all-various division; who, besides this, partially preside overmaterial affairs, and diminish and disperse those separate powerswhich subsist uniformly and indivisibly in their primitive causes.Hence, as the gods operate uniformly, indivisibly, and with



perfect



SECOND VOLUME. 



perfect irapaffivity, Isut these d√¶moniacal powers, multifariously,divisibly, and with passivity, this opposition between gods andd√¶mons was beautifully called by the ancient authors of fables,a battle. See this interesting particular more fully unfoldedfrom Proclus, p. , &c. of my Translation of the OrphicHymns.



Page . Homer in the Odyssey.] Book x. ver. . Thespeech of the Pli√¶acian king is in Odyss . ver. . Wehave before observed, that the Odyssey is an allegorical poem:and if this be the cafe, there can be no doubt, but that thePhzacians, Cyclops, and the race of gianti mentioned in theseventh book, are all beings superior to the human species.



Page . If indeed the gods are the sources of good to man-kind.'] The gods must necessarily be the sources ofgood, becausegoodness constitutes their very essence; so that every thing pro≠ceeding from them (and all things are their offspring) is na≠turally indued with the form of good. I only add, that Jupiteris not the supreme god, though Pausanias seems to think he is,as the reader may be convinced by perusing my Notes on theCratylus of Plato.



Page . The verses about them are in the oath of Juno."} L e.in Iliad . ver. . The Titans are the ultimate artificers ofthings; and their monad is Bacchus.



Page . Homer.'] Iliad . ver. .



Page . Homer.] Iliad . ver. , &c. In these lines, Eu¬´rynome is called the daughter of Ocean. And the Scholiast on theCassandra of Lycophron fays that Ophion and Eurynome thedaughter of Ocean reigned among the gods called Titans, priorto Saturn and Rhea; but that Saturn and Rhea vanquished inwrestling Ophion and Eurynome, and having hurled them intoTartarus invaded their kingdom. Boethius too, upon Porphyry,(lib. ) thus writes: "Quantum ad vetercs theologos, referturJupiter ad Saturnum, Saturnus ad C≈ìlum, C≈ìlus ad antiquif-simum Ophionem, cujus nullum est principium." That is,



Z  "Accord≠



 NOTES ON THE



"According to ancient theologifts, Jupiter is referred to Saturn,Saturn to Heaven, and Heaven to the most ancient Ophlon, ofwhom there is no original." The Scholiast on the Prometheusof √Üschylus fays nearly the fame. This most ancient godOphion is therefore, as it appears to me, the fame with the Or≠phic dragon, the original of all things: for Ophion is doubtlessderived from ofi,- ophit, a serpent. But of this dragon, Damas-cius, in his treatise mci a.pxu'i On Principles, gives the followingaccount: "I likewise find in the Orphic rhapsodies, that thetheology neglecting the two first principles (viz. √¶ther andchaos) together with the one principle who is delivered insilence (i. e. the first cause) establishes the third principle pos≠terior to the two as the original; because this first of all possessessomething essable and commensurate to human discourse. Forin the former hypothesis, the highly reverenced and undecayingTime, the father of √¶ther and chaos, was the principle; but inthis Tims is neglected, and the principle becomes a dragon/'See more from Damascius, on the most interesting of all sub≠jects, In my Introduction to the Paimenides of Plato. I onlyadd, that the Ophion with whom Eurynome is co-ordinate inthe fame manner as Rhea is with Saturn, must be considered asa procession from the Ophion who is the fame with the Orphicdragon.



Page . Homer.] Odyss. . v. , &c. these lines are,thus translated by Mr. Pope:



Thus seems the palm with stately honours crown'd >By Ph≈ìbus' altars j thus o'erlooks the ground;Tin pride of Delos. -



Page . Homer.'] Odyss. lib. xi.



Page . They fay that Pan met Philippides.'] The Pan thatmet -this Philippides was one of those d√¶mons xola '/tm, ofwhom we have given an account in a former note. Respectingthis Pan, Pipclus observes as follows in Schol. MSS. in Cra-



 tylum:



SECOND VOLUME. t



tylum: Oil un xou warn; Tpa^ooruXtis, oio{ i)¬ª ‚Ä¢ pa¬´i{T¬´ ¬ª)^sp¬´ ¬ª^iXkmmci), to niim! &ajx!iCo¬ªi ‚Ä¢(¬ª;. xst o-ii¬ªaixa¬ª /u%ai %>y/acrt



Uv tg aSu/a q tu ooWssii t¬£ t¬´ TuXifia^u Ca¬ªtic-≈ì. u ttl tohmi daiuon: My aSuwwxot, K> x^\Xa ‚ÄîXfov avloi ot Stoi aman; njj TGMd/lnf ‚Äîf|>ipi)y¬´i. That is, "There are Pans with the legs of goats,yi/^A was the Pan ivho, gently running along, appeared to Philip-fide* as he was pajftng over the mountain Parthtnius; and foulsbelonging to Minerva, who change themselves into variousforms, and proximately rule over mankind; such as was theMinerva who appeared to Ulysses and Telemachus. But Panicdemons, demons belonging to Minerva, and much more the godsthemselves, are exempt from all such variety."



Z j NOTES



I



NOTES



ON T H I



THIRD VOLUME.



Page . That Adaon might It torn to pieces by hit dogs."] Wehave before (hewn, that a dog was considered by the ancients asthe image of the discriminating and at the same time reprovingpower of the soul. And as Diana, or the moon, is the imageof Nature, she signifies in this fable the natural life, wliich isdivided about the bodies of all animals, and which is the cause toall bodits of augmentation, nutrition, and generation. As astag too is a most lascivious animal, it mull be considered as theimage of a lascivious life. The meaning of the fable, therefore,appears to be this. Actason beholds Diana naked; i. e. hisrational foul converts itself to the natural life which is suspendedfrom its essence, and which subsists in Actseon according to alascivious halit. Hence, by a conversion of this kind, the foulbecomes wholly changed into a lascivious life: and this is themeaning of Action being changed into a stag. But when thisis the cafe, tke rational foul becomes distributed by its discrimi≠nating power, considered according to its divisible subsistence inthe senses; for the foul of such a one is wholly engrossed in sen≠sible discrimination: and this is the meaning of Act√¶on beingtorn in pieces by his dogs.



Page . He married Harmony, the daughter of Venus andMars.] We have shewn in a former note, that by Cadmus ifmeant the sublunary world, or rather the deity of the sublunaryworld; and this being the cafe, there is great beauty in con≠joining with him Harmonia, or Harmony, the daughter of Vemu



and



NOTES ON THE THIRD VOLUME. 



and Mars. For Venus is the cause of all the harmony and ana≠logy in the universe, and beautifully illuminates the order andcommunion of all mundane concerns. But Mars excites thecontrarieties of the universe, that the world may exist perfectand entire from all its parts. The progeny, therefore, of thesetwo divinities must be the rerum concordia discors, the concord≠ant discord, or harmony of the sublunary world.Homer."] Odyff. . ver. .



Page . Have seven gates."] The names of these seven gatesshould be read as follows: Elcr√¶, Proctid*, Nciltt, Crcntx,Hypjijls, Ogygts, Omoloides. Nonnus, lib. . Dionys. informsus, that these seven gates were raised agreeably to the numberand order of the seven planets; so that the first gate was assignedto the Moon, the second to Mercury, the fourth to the Sun,under the appellation of Electra, a surname of Phaethon, thefifth to Mars, the third to Venus, the sixth to Jupiter, and theseventh to Saturn. By this is meant, that the properties of theseven planets are participated by the sublunary world. For asCadmus is the deity of the sublunary region, the city Thebes^which he is said to have built, and in which, according to thefable, he resided, must be an image of the body of the sublunaryworld.



Page . Pipes adapted to every kind of harmony.] In one ofmy notes on the Cratylus of Plato, I have (hewn from a pas≠sage out of the MS. Commentary of Proclus on the first. Alci-biades, that the ancients far excelled the moderns in the practicalpart of music. This passage I mall here transcribe, as a com-ment on the words of Pausanias before us. ¬´¬ª ojai To√Üai mt



avXiUiw/ o.tsit fXtpwrat. om&vt ovit o xAalur avltii wafaoi^ilai.  Siailior, i) TrwxtTii√¶ tov Ji TOV opyavoD tov aiAov \tyu,  xsr¬ª tm rtyyr,i tiltXjxiun* au]*/ emifriH piuxlor. xcu yap ta Tawffuna, xsu v ro\t ^opjta,^of.tila tut avXut ir¬ª. txafov yap tp/mi^ tm> attar/ Tpt^SeyJov; Usfact tou i^a^irs atyinon* it it xai r¬´ srapalpinsiiftala mt av\ut*mx$uti, vhtwvt. i. e. "Well-instituted polities reject the me-



Z+ lady



 NOTES ON THE



lody of the pipe; and on tins account Plato dots not admit itin his republic. But the reason of this is the variety of thisinstrument, the pipe, which evinces that the art employing itought to be avoided. For instruments producing every hind ofharmony, and that instrument which consists of many chords, areimitations of pipes; for every hole of the pipe emits (at theyfay) three sounds at least; but if the cavity above the holes ofthe pipe should be opened, then each hole wonld fend forth morethan three sounds." Olympiodorus too, in MS. Comment, inPh√¶donem, observes as follows concerning this pipe, o xoifr,iTor avXov oioicxi tc*( t^ucu^ ovtixjJLav o¬£ toi; y.ri. . tyt√¶c^tcy yd f ytrthuov fMtot tu JiaMyio-Sat, a>Xa tu axmuti, aw^ii'; iraai) Xoytx*> "if-ytM ^vyQic* <tto >Cj r> aviiva rj "tut a&jyawiiy ^roXiov^oj Tun diatAiyit/Sx*fto>o¬ª ficira/iott'' a-srsfpi^i Tof; auXou;. i.e. "The poet (Homer)gives pipes to the Trojans, but by no means to the Greeks. Forthe pipe is not only a hindrance to discourse, but to hearing, andin short to every rational energy of the soul. Hence Minerva*,who is the guardian deity of the Athenians, who alone knowhow to argue, threw away the pipes."



Page . Homcr.~\ The verses alluded to are in Iliad .ver. , , and may be thus translated:



His eyes and head resembling thund'rmg Jove,Like Neptune was his breait, like Mars his ¬ªmc.



Page . The Il\ad.~\ Lib. . ver. .



Page . Homer."] Iliad . ver. , .



Page . Hjrncr.'] OdyflT. . ver. , &c. Proclus on Hc-siod, p. , beautifully observes, concerning the pillars ofAtlas, that they signify his being allotted powers which in anundeviating manner separate the heaven from the earth; so thatthe former revolves perpetually in an exempt manner about thelatter; but earth bung stably fixed in the middle, brings forthevery thing maternally, which the heavens generate paternally."



¬ª Alluding to the story of Marsyas and Apollo.



These



THIRD VOLUME.



These pillars therefore are images of disterminating, and at thefame time connecting powers, which by their efficacious vigoureternally prevent things on high from being confused with thingsbelow. Hence Atlas, who contains these powers, and who isone of the Tartarean gods about Bacchus, energizes not onlyaccording to a separating power, which is the characteristic ofthe Titans, but likewise according to a connecting power, whichis the characteristic of Jupiter.



Page . Homer.'] Iliad . ver. .



Page . Cabiri.~\ It appears to me, that the celestial twinsare no other than the Curetes, according to their mundane sub≠sistence. For the first subsistence of the Curetes is, as we learnfrom Proclus, in that order of gods which is denominated by the,Chaldxan theologists ¬ªofpo; intellectual, and of which Saturn isthe summit. Their next subsistence is among the supermundanegods, in which order they are called the Corylanlei. And theirthird subsistence is doubtless that of the twins. For the Curetesin the Orphic hymns are celebrated as the twins. If this bethe case, and the Cabiri are, according to the Scholiast on Apol-lonius Rhodius, Ceres, Proserpine, Pluto and Mercury, theycannot be the same with either the Curetes, Corybantes, orDioscuri. For the Curetes, according to Proclus, are the guar≠dian triad of the intellectual triad, Saturn, Rhea, and Jupiter,and he informs us that one of these Curetes is Minerva. The Co≠rybantes, as we learn from the fame author, are the guardians ofthe Coric triad, Diana, Proserpine, and Minerva. And as to theDioscuri, or the twine, they are evidently different from theCabi ri mentioned by the Scholiast.



Page . The Sphinx.'] The Sphinx, according to LasusHermioneus, was the daughter of Echidna and Typhon; andaccording to Clearchus, (he had the head and hands of a virgin,the body of a dog, a human voice, the tail of a dragon, theclaws of a lion, and the wings of a bird. But it appears tome that the ancients, by the Sphinx, designed to represent to us



the



 ftOTES ON THE



the nature of the phantasy. In order to be convinced of which,it is neceflary to observe, that the rational soul, or the true man,consists of intellect, cogitation (Jiawia) and opinion; but thefictitious man, or the irrational foul, commences from the phanta≠sy, under which desire and anger subsist. Hence the basis ofthe rational life is opinion, but the summit of the irrational life isthe phantasy. But the phantasy, as Jamblichus beautifully ob≠serves, glows upon, as it were, and fashions all the powers ofthe foul; exciting in opinion the illuminations from the fenses,and fixing in that life which is extended with body the impres≠sions which descend from intellect. Hence, says Proclus, it foldsitself about the indivisibility of true intellect, conforms itself toall formless species, and becomes perfectly every thing, fromwhich cogitation and our indivisible reason consist.



This being the cafe, as the phantasy is all things passivelywhich intellect is impassively (on which account Aristotle callsthe phantasy passive intellect), hence the head of the Sphinx ishuman, but at the fame time of the feminine sex; this sexbeing the image from its passivity of irrational life. By theSphinx having the body of a dog, the discriminating power ofthe phantasy is implied: for a dog, as we have stiewn before, isthe image of the discriminating power of the soul (to Siaxpilixoim ^vyjr.f). By her having the tail of a dragon, and the clawsof a lion, the communication of the phantasy with desire andanger is signified. And her wings are images of the elevatingpowers which the phantasy naturally possesses; for it is re-ele≠vated, in conjunction with the returning foul, to the region everyway resplendent with light. But the riddles of the Sphinx areimages of the obscure and intricate nature of the phantasy. Hetherefore, who is unable to solve the riddles of the Sphinx,i. e. who cannot comprehend the dark and perplexed nature ofthe phantasy, will be drawn into her embraces and torn in pieces;i. e. the phantasy in such a one will subject to its power therational Use! cause its indivisible energies to become divisible,



 and



THIRD VOLUME. 



and thus destroy as much as possible its very essence. But hewho, like Oedipus, is able to solve the √¶nigmas of the Sphinx,or, in other words, to comprehend the dark essence of his phan≠tasy, will, by illuminating its obscurity with the light of in≠tellect, cause it, by becoming lucid throughout, to be no longerwhat it was before.



Hence we may fee the propriety of the Egyptians placing aSphinx in the vestibule of the temple of Isis, who is the fame withMinerva. For what the phantasy is in the microcosm man, thatMther is in the universe. But opinion may be called the vestibuleof the rational soul, and the rational soul is as it were the templeof that intellectual illumination which proceeds from Minerva.In this vestibule therefore the phantasy is seated. And in a similarmanner √¶ther is seated in the vestibule of that divine soul, whichis suspended from the deity of Minerva, and which may be calledher temple. So that √¶ther is the Sphinx of the universe.



Page . Pamphus.~\ Pamphus was an Athenian poet, con≠temporary with Linus, and is said to have composed poems andhymns prior to Homer.



Page . That Chaos was first generated,'] In my Intro≠duction to the Parmenides of Plato, I have shewn that, in theopinion of all antiquity, yf¬ªio, in the verse of Hesiod alludedto by Pausanias, was considered as meaning <was generated,though in all the editions of Hesiod this word is translated suit,as if the poet had said, that Chats was the first of all things. Ishall only add at present from Simplicius De C≈ìlo, p. ,"that Hesiod, when he sings.



Chaos of all tilings was the first pratluc'd,



insinuates that there was something prior to Chaos, from whichChaos was produced. For it is always necessary that everything which is generated should be generated from something.But this likewise is insinuated by Hesiod, that the first cause itabove all knowledge and every appellation."



Page



S NOTES ON THE



Page . Mimnermus.] Mimnermus was an elegiac poetof Colophon, and, according to Suidas, was the son of Ligyrti-ades; hut ‚ñ†according to others he was a Smyrnsean. He flou≠rished about the time of Solon, and besides elegies wrote onamatorial subjects, as we learn from Propertius and Horace. Atpresent, however, nothing more than fragments of the works ofthis poet remain.



Page . Linus."] Linus, according to Suidas, was a poet ofChalcis, and the first that brought the knowledge of lettersfrom Ph≈ìnicia to Greece. He taught Hercules letters, andis said to have ranked as the prince of lyric poets. Two frag≠ments are all the remains of his works at present



Page . That Orpheus was the son of the Muse Calliope.']How this is to be understood, the reader may learn by con≠sulting the note on p. . of Vol. L of this work. For anaccount of Orpheus, fee the Dissertation prefixed to my Trans≠lation of the Orphic Hymns.



Page g. With respect to the hymns of Orpheus, Z?c] Fabriciusand others are of opinion, that the Orphic hymns which are nowextant are the very hymns mentioned in this place by Pausanias.But surely, if this were the cafe, Pausanias would not fay, thatthe whole of the hymns of Orpheus does not amount to any coiifidtr-able number; for how can eighty-six, the number of the Orphichymns now extant, be called an inconsiderable number?



Page . They fay that Narcissus beheld himself in this foun≠tain, SsV.] The fable of Narcissus beautifully represents to usthe condition of a foul converting itself to the phantasy (for thisis the meaning of Narcissus hanging over the limpid theam),and in consequence os this becoming enamoured with a cor≠poreal life; or that life which subsists in body, and which is no≠thing more than the delusive image of the true man, i. e. of therational and immortal foul. Hence by an immoderate attach≠ment to this unsubstantial mockery and gliding semblance of thereal soul, such a one becomes at length wholly changed, as far as



is



 



THIRD VOLUME. a



is possible to his nature, into a plantal condition of being, into abeautiful but transient flower; that is, into a corporeal life,or a life totally consisting in the mere energies of nature.So that Narcissus is tlie image of a foul converting herself tophantasy, and through this becoming drawn under the dominionof fense.



But it is here necessary to observe, that the death of Narcissusis related by Plotinus and the anonymous author De Incredibi-libus in Gale's Qpufcula in a manner different from that of Ovid.For according to them Narcissus merged himself into the stream,through endeavouring to embrace his shadow, and disappeared.The fable however is extremely beautiful, whether we considerNarcissus as changed into a flower or suffocated in the stream:"For (says Plotinus, Ennead. I. lib. vi.) as he in the fable, whoby catching at his' shadow merged himself in the stream anddisappeared, so he who is captivated by beautiful bodies, anddoes not depart from their embrace, is precipitated not with hisbody but with his foul into a darkness profound and horrid tointellect, through which becoming blind both here and in Hades,he converses with nothing but shadows."



Page . As Jbe was playing and gathering jtoivers.~\ Forthe meaning of this part of the fable respecting Proserpine, secmy Dissertation on the Ehiifinian and Bacchic Mjjleriet.



Page . Tirefias.~\ What are we to understand by Tiresiatbecoming blind, through beholding Minerva? Certainly, thatby a profound conversion of the eye of his foul to divine -wisdomhe became abstracted from corporeal vision; and thus, by leadinga life separate from sensible inspection, was fabled to be corpo≠really blind. Hence Tiresias is said by Homer, Odyss. .ver. , &c. to be the only wise person in Hades, and to pos≠sess intellect though dead, through Proserpine, while the otherinhabitants of Hades arc nothing more than flying shadows.For it may be truly asserted of such a one, both in the presentlife and hereafter, that he alone is wise and endued with intellect,



when



v



<* NOTES ON THE



when contrasted with the multitude of mankind, who frontbeing merged in the darkness of matter lose all reality of es≠sence, and may not only be called flying shadows, but the dreamsof shadows *.



Page . One of the seasons."] The names of the seasons, ac≠cording to the Orphic hymns, are Eunom'ia or Equity, Dice orJustice, and Eircne or Peace, concerning which three divinities Ifind the following beautiful passage in the Commentaries of Pro-clus on the Tim√¶us, p. . ot SioXo}t>i nn tu>o;¬´a¬ª nriptna tnavXavn, to i¬ª aa/Ti) ¬´X>)oj Jtaxjiyiway, txartt tvn tks oiwia; Sia-Tnjeo-ay an to¬£h>;. iuc thto Ji af¬ª Kj* tov HQcuem vfaurm tu UfcuHtrou/rny, CfyonffTtxriF kvtw kJ t>,¬ª Ay/.aiar, a>{ ayXat^om caira tc¬ªou¬ª



Aw/ iptrcun rut ¬´{¬´y, ¬ª>| ¬´piiXH<rccy t¬´i¬ª aya/xa\¬ª¬´sy nara Xoyoy o{‚Ä¢parWntra mnaytu, rt>t it Safuuat tut Xfteftvt, a; Ta; ¬£<Mt; twtwau GtzXu; aworiXtfiray. ru i*¬´ wo o-iXr/yir, my fxiy Etfrjrrjy, UsToy iroXtftoy Toiy foi^liay W, T|y ti Euf garvmt, T¬ªiy X^'*



T¬´j, ¬´; fxaj-oif lyiJioWay fUsumt tjj{ xara (ptai, tvtay¬´i¬´;.i. e. "Theologists place Eunomia over the inerratic sphere,who separates the multitude which it contains, and per¬ªpetnally preserves every thing in its proper order: and hencecelebrating fulcan as the fabricator of the heavens, they conjoinwith him jlglaia, because (he gives splendour to every part ofthe heavens, through the variety of the stars. And again, theyplace Justice, one of the seasons, over the planetary spheres; be≠cause this deity gives assistance to the inequality of their motions,and causes them through proportion to conspire into equalityand consent: but of the Graces they conjoin with this divinityThalia, because she gives perfection to the ever-flourishing liveswhich they contain. But they place Peace over the sublunaryregion, because this divinity appeases the war of the elements:but of the Graces they associate with this divinity Euphrofyne,



* (pus; ¬´a- ey¬ß¬£¬´TD>. Pindar.



because



THIRD VOLUME. yi



because she confers a facility of natural energy on each of theelements." Agreeably to this information, Neptune in the Or≠phic hymn to that deity is called KWfxofloXiK, or flourishing in water,and x≈ìslT"r≈ì>.or having a graceful aspect. Laiv is called ce-leflial, and the founder of the stars: and Justice is said to con*nect diffimilars from the equality of truth.



Page . Onomacritus.] This poet was an Athenian, andaccording to Clemens Alex, lived about the fiftieth Olympiad.Many of the poems ascribed to Orpheus are said to have beenwritten by this poet.



Page Homer.'] Iliad lS. ver. . But the verses citedfrom Homer in the fame page are Iliad . ver. .



Page . Homer.] Iliad . ver. .



Page . Trophonius and Agamedts.] Cicero gives a differentaccount of the death of these brothers: for, according to him,when they desired of Apollo that they might have that rewardfor building his temple at Delphos which he judged to be bestfor man, they were three days after found dead in their beds.



Page . Homer.] Iliad . ver. , and Iliad . ver. .



Page . Homer.] Iliad , and Odyss. . ver. .



Page . The sceptre which Homer says Vulcan made for Ju≠piter.] The verses alluded to here by Paufanias are in the secondbook of the Iliad, and are thus tranflated by Mr. Pope:



The king of kings bis awful figure rais'd jHigh in his hand the golden sceptre blaz'd:The golden sceptre, of celestial frame,By Vulcan form'd, from Jove to Hermes came:To Pelops he th' immortal gift resign'd:Th' immortal gift great Pelops left behindIn Atreus' hand, which not with Atreui ends,To rich Thyestes next the prize deicends jAnd now, the mark of Agamemnon's reign,Subjects all Argos, and controls the main.



We have observed in a preceding note, that certain statues



were



 NOTES ON THE



were said by the ancients to have descended from heaven, be≠cause they were fabricated by a certain occult art. In a similar'manner, perhaps, this sceptre was said to have been made by Vul≠can. But the Jupiter and Hermes that first possessed it must beconsidered as terrestrial heroes: and this construction being ad≠mitted, the apparent absurdity in the history of this sceptre va≠nishes.



Page . Homer in the Od^fo'-l L'D" xi. ver. $ j andlib. xv. ver. ; and lib. xviii. ver. .



Page . Homer.'] The Hist passage respecting Paaopeusispdyss. II. ver. :



Througli Panope delighting in lie dance,To Pytho journeying. 



The latter is Iliad . ver. , and is thus translated by Mr.Pope:



Once more at Ajnx Hector's javelin flics:The Grecian marking as it cut the flues,Shunn'd the descending death; which, hissing on,Stretch'd in the dust the great Iphytus' son,Schedius the brave, of all the Phucian k.indThe boldest warrior, aud the noblest mind:In little Panope, for strength renown'd,He held his feat, and rul'd the realmb around.



The verses respecting Tityus are Odyss. . ver. rf o. Thetranslator is Mr. Pope. In a preceding note we explained fromOlympiodorus the meaning of the fable of Tityus. I only add,that the great earthltnefs of the prudence of Tityus seems tobe implied by his being extended over nine acres of ground.



Page . Became divinely inspiredfrom the -vapour of the earth,and prophesied through the influence of Jlpolln.'] The followingbeautiful explanation of divination by oracles, from JamblichusDe Mysteriis, p. ;, &c. will I doubt not be highly acceptableto the liberal reader; as it not only unfolds the manner in which



 the



THIRD VOLUME. 



‚ô¶he Delphic prophetess predicted future events, but the mannerin which this was accomplished by the prophetesses in Colophonand Branchid√¶ j and satisfactorily shews us how the gods com≠municate prophecy to mankind.



"It is acknowledged by all men, that the oracle in Colophongives its answers through the medium of water: for there is afountain in a subterranean dwelling, from which the prophetessdrinks; and on certain established nights, after many sacred ntelhave been previously perfoimed, and she has drunk of- the foun≠tain, she delivers oracles, but is not visible to those that are pre≠sent. That this water therefore is prophetic, is from hence ma≠nifest. But how it becomes so, this (according to the proverb)is not for every man to know. For it appears as if a certain pro≠phetic spirit pervaded through the water. This is not howeverin reality the cafe. For a divine nature does not pervade throughits participants in this manner, according to interval and division,but comprehends as it were externally, and illuminates the foun≠tain, and fills it from itself with a prophetic power. For the in≠spiration which the water affords is not the whole of that whichproceeds from a divine power, but the water itself only preparesus^tand purifies our luciform spirit, so that we may be able to re≠ceive the divinity; while in the mean time there is a presence ofdivinity prior to this, and illuminating from on high. And thisindeed is not absent from any one, who through aptitude is ca≠pable of being conjoined with it. But this divine illumination isimmediately present, and uses the prophetess as an instrument;she neither being any longer mistress of herself, nor capable ofattending to what she says, nor perceiving where (he is. Henceafter prediction she is scarcely able to recover herself. And be≠fore she drinks the water, flic abstains from food for a whole dayand night; and retiring to certain sacred places, inaccessible tothe multitude, begins to receive in them the enthusiastic energyiThrough her departure, therefore, and separation from humanconcerns, she renders herself pure, and by this means adapted toVol. III. A a the



S+ NOTES ON THE



the reception of divinity: and from hence (he possesses the inf*fpiration of the god mining into the pure feat of her foul, be≠comes full of an unrestrained afflatus, and receives the divine pre≠sence in a perfect manner, and without any impediment*



H But the prophetess in Delphos, whether (he gives oracles tomankind through an attenuated and fiery spirit, bursting fromthe mouth of the cavern, or whether being seated in the adytumupon a brazen tripod, or on a stool with four feet, she become*sacred to the god ;‚Äîwhichsoever of these is the cafe, (he entirelygives herself up to a divine spirit, and is illuminated with a rayof divine fire. And when indeed fire ascending from the mouthof the cavern circularly invests her in collected abundance, (hebecomes filled from it with a divine splendour. But when stieplaces herself on the seat of the god, she becomes accommodatedto his stable prophetic power: and from both these preparatoryoperations, she becomes wholly possessed by the god. And thenindeed he i present with and illuminates her in a separate man≠ner, and is different from the fire, the spirit, the proper seat, andin sliort from all the apparent apparatus of the place, whetherphysical or sacred.



*‚Ä¢ The prophetic woman too in Branchidx, whether (he huldtht her hand a wand, which was at first received from some god,becomes silled with a divine splendour, or whether seated on anaxis (he predicts future events, or dips her feet or the border ofher garment in the water, or receives the god by imbibing the"vapour of the water, by all these (he becomes adapted to partakeexternally * of the god.



"But the multitude of sacrifices, the institution of the wholesanctimony, and such other things as aTe performed in a divinemanner, prior to the prophetic inspiration, viz,, the baths of theprophettis, her fasting for three whole days, her retiring into the



* That is, of an Hiumination which has no rx^'fr ^ to any



thing material.



 xJy^r



TriikD vbLtitaE. is



Adyta, and there receiving a divine light, and rejoicing for a con≠siderable time‚Äîall these evince that the god is entreated by prayerto approach, that he becomes externally present, and that theprophetess before she comes to her nccuttomed place is inspiredin a wonderful manner, and that in the spirit which rises from the ,fountain another more ancient god who is separate from the placeappears, and who is the cause of the place, of the country, andof the whole of divination/'



Page . In imitation of <whal Homer says refpeBing the Sirens. ]The description of the Sirens is in the twelfth book of theOdyssey, near the beginning; and is thus elegantly paraphrasedby Mr. Pope <



Next where the Sirens dwell you plough the sett;



Their song is death) and makes destruction please.



Unbless'd the man whom music wins to stay



Nigh the curst shore, and listen to the lay;



No more that wretch (hall view the joys of lifej



His blooming offspring, or his beauteous Wife I ‚Ä¢ ^



In verdant meads they sport, and wide around



Lie human bones, that whiten all the ground;



the ground polluted floats With human gorej



And human carnage taints the dreadful Ihore.



Fly swift the dang'rous coast; let ev'rjr ear



Be stopp'd against the song! 'tis death to hear I



Firni to the mast with chains thyself be bound,



Nor trust thy virtue to th' enchanting sound.



If mad with transport freedom thou demand,



Be ev"ry fetter strairt'd, and added band to band.



Proclus, iit Schol. MSS. in Cratylum, beautifully observe*concerning the Sirens as follows:‚Äî" The divine Plato knewthat there Were three kinds of Sirens: the celestial, which is underthe government of Jupiter; that which is productive of generation(ymawt/jyoj), and is under the government of Neptune; andthat which is cathartic, and is under the government of Pluto.It is common to all these to incline all things through an har-



A a  monie



NOTES ON THE



mome motion to their ruling gods. Hence, when the soul is I*the heavens, they are desirous of uniting it to the divine lifewhich flourishes there. But it is proper that souls living in ge≠neration should fail beyond them, like the Homeric Ulysses, thatthey may not be allured by generation, of which the sea is animage. And when souls are in Hades, the Sirens are desirous ofuniting them through intellectual conceptions to Pluto. So thatPlato knew that in the kingdom of Hades there are gods, d√¶≠mons, and souls, who dance as it were round Pluto, allured bythe Sirens that dwell there."



But here a doubt may very naturally arise in the mind of thereader unskilled in philosophy, how the Sirens, who are divinepowers, can be said to be desirous of connecting souls with gene≠ration, which is baneful to the soul. To this I answer, that thealluring power of the Sirens benefits impure souls, by subjectingthem to generation; as their latent guilt is by this means drawnforth, and they are thus prepared for that punishment, whichbeing inflicted for the most benevolent purposes, is in such asthese necessary to the acquisition of a perfect life. But thesedivine natures benefit pure souls by their alluring power, becausethrough this they call forth the virtues of such souls into energy,which would otherwise remain in a dormant state.



Page . Minerva Pronoia.~\ i. e. Providential Minerva.Phurnutus informs us, that temples were raised in honour of Mi≠nerva Pronoia, because this goddess is the fame with the provi≠dence which subsists in Jupiter. I only add, that providence(t^orjhx) evidently signifies an energy prior lo inlelleB (¬ª{o nu),and is therefore an energy of the gods, who are superiutellectualnatures.



Page :. Alctvi\ Was a lyric poet, who flourished aboutthe th Olympiad, aud was contemporary, according to Hero-dotus,-with Periander. His poetry was celebrated for its greatresemblance to that of Homer j but at present nothing but frag≠ments of it remain.



 p¬ªSe



THIRD VOLUME. 



Page . The verses of Homer.] The island of √Üoluj is de≠scribed in the beginning of the tenth book of the Odyssey.



Page . The Sibyl Herophile.] Hermias the philosopher,in his MS. Commentary on the Ph√¶drus of Plato, has the follow≠ing remarkable passage respecting this Sibyl. The reader mayfind the original of it in my translation of the Ph√¶drus, page ."The particulars which are reported about this Sibyl are so won≠derful, that they liave the appearance of fables. But indeed therewere many Sibyls, all of whom adopted the fame life, and all ofthem, perhaps through a certain rational cause, were called Sibyls:just as Hermes Trifmegistus, who often resided in Egypt, is saidto have made mention of himself, and to have been called the thirdtime Hermes. Three Orpheuses also aie said to have existedamatig the Thracians. Perhaps therefore these Sibyls chosethese appellations from a certain communication and recollection;since this very Erythr√¶an Sibyl, of whom Plato now speaks, wasfrom the first called Herophile. But they report that she calledevery one by his proper name as soon as she was born, that shelikewise spoke in verse, and that in a short time she arrived at"theperfection of the human species."



Page . And in a lawless manner depopulate Asia.] It seemsthat the Gallic nation has been remarkable, from very early pe≠riods, for acting in defiance of law.



Page . Homer.] Odyss. . ver. .



Page . Nor performing any of the sacred ceremoniet os hittvjn country.] Here too we fee that the Gauls were at an early |period remarkable for their impiety; and the fame gigantic spiritrules in the breasts of their descendants of the present day. In≠deed the French seem at present to have greatly surpassed theirancestors in impiety; for it is no where asserted that the ancientGauls were professedly a nation of atheists, though they acted inan irreligious manner. However, these effeminate, volatile, su≠perficial and lawless people, who after throwing off the barbarjG



A a  yoke



¬´ NOTES ON THE



yoke of the polluted piety of the Catholics, have abandoned all re->ligion, would do well to consider the following passage from theCommentaries of Simplicius on Epictetus, p. joo, and returnat least to the belief of a supreme cause, ere they become adreadful example to surrounding nations of that severe thoughnecessary punishment with which atheism is inevitably attended.warns a>{¬ªnr¬´i, xj jSa^Cpfoi xj iWjim?, mm a. rat irfoii^ov arn¬ªoi^t¬´r Kj rvt, KStv aXAoi xot' aXX,*.; litir.;, >Of*t¬£oui> ir^uiA*¬£'.So<Ti>y, a; ifO¬£t( to^par'{ aSfou; yiMftwouf uro rns yniuTaaro¬´vai. it in ti; aXXo; it; n ivo norm varra to¬ª ‚Äîfortes, aivaifflfDTai. i. e. *'Al! men, both Barbarians and Greeks, as well inthe infinite series of past ages as now, though according to dif>ferent conceptions, have believed that there is a god, the Acro-thoit√¶ exccptedi‚Äîwho, at Theophrastus informs us, in conse≠quence of becoming atheists were entirely absorbed by the earth;and perhaps one or two other nations, which may be recordedin history during the infinity of past time,"



Page . Know thy/els'] The foul that truly knows her≠self, knows that she possesses a knowledge which is situated be≠tween the univeifal perception of intellect, and the partial per≠ception of sense. She must therefore be well acquainted withall the natures both prior and posterior to her own essence. Andhence in self-knowledge sll knowledge is comprehended. If thisbe the cafe, the number of mankind that possess this self-know≠ledge must be exceeding small. For there are five habits of thefoul with respect to all knowledge j viz. two-fold ignorance, Jim-pie ignorance, desire, search, and invention: and the multitude areunder the dominion of the two first of these habits, as they areeither even ignorant of their ignorance, or at most are sensible of itwithout any desire tp become wise.



Page . Homer, in the abusive speech os Me/ant ho lo Ulv/ses.]This speech is in Odyss. , ver. , &c.



Page . Homer indeed.] The verses respecting the pilot



Phrontit,



THIRD VOLUME.



Phrontis are in Odyssey . ver. , and are thus translated byMr. Pope:



Mean time from flaming Troy we cut the way,With Menelaus thro* the curling sea:But when to Sunium's sacred point we came,Crowa'd with the temple of th' Athenian dame;Atrides' pilot, Phrontis, there expir'd(Phrontis, of all the sons of men admir'd,To steer the bounding bark with steady toil,When the storm thickens, and the billows boil):While yet he exercis'd the steersman's art,Apollo toueh'd him with his gentle dart;Ev'n with the rudder in his hand he fell.



^aSe '¬ª Homer.'] In the th book of the Iliad, ver. $,Homer fays of Ajax that he broke the cavity of the coat of mailof Phorcys:



Page . Homer.~\ Iliad . ver. .



Page . This Bacchus, too, in my opinion, (sfc."] The Bac≠chus, who first led an army to the Indies, must have been a herowho descended from the god Bacchus; and who knowing this,called himself by the name of his leading divinity.



Page . Homer.] The verses respecting Theseus and Pi-rithoug are in Odyss. . and Iliad. . ver. .



Page . The daughters of Pandarus.] The verses alluded toby Pausanias respecting the daughters of Pan da rue are in Odyssey. ver. ; and are thus translated by Mr. Pope!



So, Pandarus, thy hopes, three orphans fair,Were doom'd to wander thro* the devious air |Thyself, untimely, and thy consort, dy'd.But four celestials both your cares supply d.Venus in tender delicacy rearsWith honey, milk, and wine, their infant years:Imperial Juno to their youth aflign'dA form majestic, and sagacious mind;



A. a  Wirii



NOTES ON THE



With shapely growth Diana grac'd their bloom j



And Dallas taught the texture of the loom.



But whilst to lejrn their lots in nuptial love,



BrightC)therea (ought the bow rot Jove



(The god supreme, to whos. eternal eye



The registers of fate expanded lie);



VVing'd harpies snatch'il th" unguarded charge away,



And to the furies bore a grateful prey.



Page . As Homer represents if,] The verses alluded to byPausanias respecting the grove of Proserpine are in Odyss. ,ver.  to, and may be thus translated:



The groves of Proserpine, where.poplars tallAnd barren willows tremble o'ertl e deep.



Page . His whole Jigure is that of a humble aljeH man.]It is well said by Aristotle, in his Nicomachian Ethics, that allhumble men are flatterers, and that all flatterers are humble.This base habit of the soul is confounded by most of the presentday with modesty; though it is in reality as different from it, asthe whining cant of some contemptible sectary from the magna≠nimous speeches of Achilles in the Iliad.



Page . Pouring out the remains of the water into the perfo≠rated ‚Ä¢veffel, &c.~] Plato in the Gorgias observes that the mostvvretched of those in Hades are the uninitiated, and that the em≠ployment of such consists in pouring water out of one perforatedvessel into another. Pausanias therefore is right in conjecturingthat these persons in the picture despised the Eleusinian Myste≠ries. For Proclus in Plat. Polit. p. , observes, " that themysteries led back the soul from a material and mortal life, andconjoined it with the gods; that by intellectual illuminationsthey removed all the perturbation introduced by the iirationallife; and exterminated whatever was dark and indefinite in theinitiated, through the light proceeding from the gods." Not in≠deed that this was the case with all the initiated, for none buttrue philosophers could receive these advantages from the myste≠



ries;



 



THIRD VOLUME. 



ries; but they purified in a certain degree all that were properly-initiated in them, and on this account they were called medicinesby Heraclitus. He therefore that dcspiled the mysteries d< spisedthe means of becoming internally pure, and in consequence of thisboth here and hereafter might be said to live in Hades, and tobe employed in pouring water out of one perforated vessel intoanother. For such a one lived in obscurty, through being in astate of servitude to the body; and was continually busied in en≠deavouring to satisfy the indigence osdefirei with the flowing na≠ture of a corporeal life, which glides away as fast as it is receivedinto the foul from one desire to another, and leaves nothing behindbut the ruinous clefts through which it passed.



Page . The iears of IJis cause the Nile to increase.^ In apreceding note we have observed from Proclus that there is aterrestrial tsis about the divinity of the earth, I (hall now fui>ther observe, from the same incomparable man, that tears wereconsidered by ancient theologilts as lymbolsof the providence ofthe gods about mortal natures j and hence this saying of the√Ügyptians signifies, that the increase of the Nile is owing to theprovidential energies of Isis, considered as co-operating with Vesta,in the government ot the earth.



Page . Homer therefore appears to speak truly, f^r.] Thewords of Homer alluded to by Pausanias are these:



Iliad . ver. iji.



Which I thus translate:



*erpow'ring are the soils when clearly seen.



And in rendering the word ^aXt^oi o'erpotvering I am supportedby the authority os Jamblichus, De Mylleriis, p. . k) pit td¬ª



yev^iif ai/Tijji Tot/j (T&jjiaTixsfj GySaX/xot^, aXAa t¬£ atTO ttx^s.s ran



<f**) ayasHK^inn, xa¬ª  owS^ttci  Se^jm tou ¬ßiu,v %Vi<n <*‚ñ†**-



mm.



NOTES ON THE THIRD VOLUME.



yrmr, oXiyoSfawurin, t'; lint Ou¬±.y~z:, xai rov c: us vnv xnv/taTo; ¬´T¬ª¬ªxXimtow. i. e. The godt, when they appear, diffuse a light of sosubtle a nature, that the corporeal eyes are not able to bear it jbut are affected in the fame manner as fishes when they are drawnout of turbid and thick water into attenuated and diaphanous air.For men who behold a divine fire, as soon as they perceive it arescarcely able to breathe, and their connate spirit becomes inclosedin the fire." This passage may be considered as a comment onthe above words of Homer; and at the fame time shews thatPaufanias is mistaken in his interpretation of them.



Page . Homer.'] Iliad . ver. .



Page . Herodotus.'] In Herodotus, p. , this city itgalled Amphicaa.



sage , Homer.] Iliad . Ter, J,



T N D E X,



 



INDEX.



‚ñ†A B√Ü, th* city, iii. .



Abantis, the region, ii. .



Abaris, i. .



Abartus, ii. .



Abas, the city, iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî the son of Lynceus, iii. .



Abasa, the island, ii. .



Abu, a city in Messene, i. zi.



Abia, the nurse of Hyllus, i. .



Abros, the city, ii. .



Acacus, the son of Lycaon, ii. :.



Acamas the son of Theseus, a pictureof, iii. .



Acarnan, the son of Alcmaeon, ii. .



Acarnanes, the particulars ol an engage≠ment between them and the Mes.senians, i. .



Acastus, ii. . .



Acestium, wife of Themistocles, i. .



Acestor, the statuary, ii. .



Ach√¶us, the son of Xuthus, ii. .



Achaia, formerly called √Ügialus,ii. .



Achaians, particulars of their warlikeaffairs, ii. .



Achaians and Laced√¶monians, trans≠actions of the, ii. , , .



Achaians injured through prodition, ii..



‚ñ†r . ‚ñ† vanquish the Laced√¶monians,il. .



 ‚Äî imprison the Laced√¶monians



in Corinth, ii. .- -I the army of the, routed by



Muinmius, ii. .Achaic war, when iiniflted, ii. ,



Achaicon, the name of the assembly of



the Achaians, ii. .Achelous, th; rirer, ii. .Acheron, the banks of, produce th¬ª



white peptar, ii. .



‚ñ† a picture of, iii. ,Acherusun marsh, i. .Achilleu*, the port, i. .Achivus of √Ügium, i. .Acichorius, the Gallic general, iii. ,Acidas, the river, ii. .Acra, the promontory) i. .Acr√¶a, i. ip.Acr.ron. i. HI.Acr√¶phnium. the city, iii. .Acratus, a Bacchic d√¶mon, i. .Acria, i.  .Acrias, ii. .Acriphius, ii. .Acrisius made a brazen bed-chamber



for his daughter, iii.  J.Acritas, a place in Messenia so called,



i. .



Acrocorinthus, the summit of a Co≠rinthian mountain, i. .



Acrotatus, the son of Cleomenesi i.s.



Acrothoit√¶, the, a nation of Atheists,who were entirely absorbed by theearth, iii.



Acusilaus, the Olympic pugilist, ii,.



Act√¶on, the stone of, iii. .



, the fpcctieof, iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, a picture of, iii. .



 the fable of, explained, i. *.



Act√¶us,



e INDEX.



Act√¶us, the first Attic king, i. .



Actium, the promontory, ii. .



Actoi, the son of Phorbas, ii. .



Adimantus, i. .



Admetus, ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî , a picture of, iii. .



Adrattus i. .



, the statue of, i. .



‚ñ† ‚ñ† , the house of, i. C.



‚Äî , a brazen statue of, ii. .



'‚Äî,gave the horle Arion to Her≠cules, ii. .



Adrian the emperor, a statue of, i. .



, a molt religious cultivator of



divinity, i. .



‚Ä¢ ‚Äî dedicated the statue of Olym≠pian Jupiter in Attica, i. ., statues of, i. .



‚ñ† ‚Äî, a statue of, ii. .



* ‚ñ† greatly enlarged the road Sci-ron, i. .



‚Äî -‚Äî railed baths for the Corinthi≠ans, i. .



dedicated a peacock of gold and



splendid stones, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî dedicated a temple to Apollo,in Abse, iii. .



‚ñ† raised  temple near the wallsof Mantinea, ii. .



brought water from Stymphalusinto the city of the Corinthians,ii. .



Adrian, a gymnasium so called, i. .Adytum, a recess so called, i .√Üaccum, an inclosure in √Ügina, i..



√Üacid√¶, all of that name and family



died like Pyrrhus, i. .√Üacus, i. . .√Üchidna, the symbolical meaning of,



unfolded, iii. .√Ügi, sormerlyan Achaian city, ii. /.√Ügcus, i. .



√Üseus and Theseus, story of, i. .



√Ügiae, a Laced√¶monian town, ..



√Ügialea, the city, i. .



√Ügialeus, the son of Adr.iltus, iii. ,



', an ac≠count os the posterity of, that reign≠ed in Sicyon, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî thestitue of, i. . iii. .



√Ügi'a. a pla\.e so called in Sparta)>‚ñ† ¬´S



√Üsina, the daughter of Asopus,i. !,ii. .



√Ügina, the daughter cf Asopus, whatwe are to understand by the rela-‚Ä¢ tion concerning, in which it ifsaid that she was raviihed by Ju≠piter, iii. .√Ügina, the most difficult of access by- sea of all the Grecian islands, i..



√Ügineta:, the kingdom of, subverted by



the Athenians, i. . migrated toThyrsea in Argolis,



ib.



‚Äî‚Äî reverence Hecate above all the



divinities, . .√Üginetcs, ihe son of Pom put, ii. .√Ü;ira, an Achaian city, ii. . .√Ügisth√¶na, the town, i. .√Üjium, ii. .



√Ügyptus, the son of Nileus, ii. .√Ügvs, a city bordering on the Lacede≠monians, t. .√Üneas, brazen statue of, i. ,√Ünesidemus, il. ^.√Üiietus, the statue of, i. .√Üolius, ii. .



√Üpylus, the son of Elatus, ii. .√Üpytus, the sonof Hippothous, ii. :.√Üschylus, i. .



‚ñ† wi ote a poem on the battle



of Marathon, i. . statue and picture of, i..



. ). ii. . iii. . , why said to be the first that



represented the Furies with snakes



in their hair, iii. . .√Ürchynes, a victor in the Olympic



quinquertium, ii. .√Üsculapius, called by the Phocenses,



Archagetas, iii. ;.



‚ñ† , famous statue of, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî , a bath of, i. .



was bora in Epidauria,



i. .



Acsimides, the Athenian Archon, i.



Aesymnetes, the god, ii. -√Üfvpus, a victor in the Olympic games,



with the vaulting horse, ii. .√Üthidas, a statue of, i, .Aethlius, the son of Jupiter and Proto-penia the daughter of Deucalion,



ii. .



√Üthra the mother of Theseus, a pie,



ture of, iii. .√Üthra, i, .



√Ülhufa,



INDEX.



a<vhus'a, the daughter of Neptune, iii..



JEtius, the son of Anthas, i. . .√Üloluj, the sen of Endymion, ii. . .√Ütolus, the son of Oxyius, ii. .√Ütu√¶us, the sen of Prometheus, iii.iii. .



Agamedcs, the architect, iii. .Agamedes, the son of Stymphalus,



ii. .Agamemnon, i. .



'reverenced by the Cla-



tomenii, ii. .



‚Äî‚ñ† a picture of, iii. .



Agametor, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. in.Aganippe, the feuntain, iii. .Agapenor, the son of Ancaeus, led the



Arcadians to the Trojan war, ii.



.



Agaf tos, an Elean porch, ii. .Agaticles, the son of Archidamus, and



king  Sparta, i. .Agaithenes, ii. .At;asthenes, tile son of Augeas, ii. .Agathinus, a victor in the Olympic



garnet, ii. .Agathocles, the Athenian Archon, iii.



.



Agave, the symbolical signification of,



iii. .



Agdistls, the d√¶mon, ii. .Agcladas, the statuary, i. . ii. .



. iii. .



, the statuary, ii. .



Agelaus, the harper, iii.' .



Ageles Onus, a victorious pugilist in



the Olympic games, ii. .Agemachus, ii. .Agenor, a boy (killed in wrestling, ii.



.



Agenor, the son of Triopas, i. .



‚ñ† , a picture of, iii. .Agenor, "the father of Preugcncs, ii.



.



Agesilaus, the son of Arrhid.imus, i.¬∞-



Agesilaus, the son of Doryflus, i. .



fails lo Aulis in order to at≠tack Artaxerxes the son of Dari≠us, i. .



‚ñ† engages with, and conquers,Tifapherncs, i. .



‚ñ† ii obliged to withdraw his



army from Asia, i. .‚ñ† , his warlike transactions, i.



, .Ageslpol.s and Cleombrotus, the sona



of Paufanias, pia.eil under the guar-



dianlhip ot Anstodemus, i. .Agefipoiis, the son of Pausanias, ware



on the Argives, i.  .



, a stratagem of, ii. .



Agetor, the Arcadian, ii. t.Agias, a brazen image of, i. ;.Agid√¶, the posterity of Eurystheues so



called, . .Agiadas, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Agis, lines of, i. .Agis, the son of Archidamus, and king



of Sparta, i. . invades and depopulates the coun≠try of the EJcans, i.  .



, warlike transactions of, i. .



took the city Pillene, ii. .



prevented by the north wind troav.



taking Megalopolis, ii. .Agnagora, the lister of A listomenes, i.



.



Agnamptos,thc porch, in Altis, ii. .Agno, the nymph, ii. . .Agoracritos, the statuary, iii. .Agorius, the son of Damosius, ii. .Agrar, a place in Attica, i. a.Agrieus, i. .Agrolas, i. .Agyia, ii. .



Aj^x, the r see of, obscure, i.  Ig.Ajax, Salaminian, a picture of, iii..



Ajax, the sen of Oilcu¬´, a picture of,



iii. .Alaia, games so called, ii. .Alalcomenz, the village, iii. .Alalcomemas, the fountain, ii. .Alalcomenes, the nurse of Minerva,



iii. .



Alagonia, a Spartan town, i. .Alca-uetus, a victor in the Olympic



games, ii. .Alee the, a wild beast, particulars of,



iii. .



Aleamer.es, the statuary, i. . .



. ii. . . iii. .Aleamencs, the son of Teleclus, i. .



.



Akander, i. .



Alcathous,



 I N D E. Jfc



<



, 'I



Alcathous, the tower, i. *.Alcathous, the son of Parthaon, ii. .Alc√¶us, the poet, ii. . iii. .Alcestis, ii. .Alcibiudcs, . . ii. .Alcida. iii. .



Alcmin, the poet, i. . .Alcm√¶on, the son of Sillus, i. .Akmaron, the son of Amphiaraus, thestatue of, i. .



‚Äî '‚Äî



ticulars off ii. .Alcidamidas, i .Alcidocus, the son of Scopius, ii. .Atcimedon, the plain, ii. .Alcimedon, the hero, ii. .Alcinoe, the Nyn.ph, ii. ^.Alcmene, the bed-chamber of, iii. .Alea, tlit city, ii. .Ales, the river, ii. tfo.Alesia, a place in Sparta se called, i.



.



Aletes, the son ol Hippotas, , .Aleus, the sen of Aphidas, ii. .Aleuad√¶, the, ii T.Alexander, the son of Philip, ii. . ii.



.



‚Ä¢ ‚Ä¢ '-, a dream



of, ii.  .



-, a statue of.



ii. . . 



-i-the fortune



of, not advanced by prodition, ii.



*.



, conqueredcalled the



in that Olympic courso,Hemerodiomos, ti .



the first European prince



that possessed elepl ants, i. .Alexander, the son of Alexander the



Great, iii. .'Alexander, the statuary, i. |S.Alexandr a, the Trojan city, iii. .Alexanor Pleuromus, i .Alexanor, the son of Machajn, i. .Alexibius, a vi ;or in the Olympic



quinquertium, ii. .Alexinicus, a victorious wrestler in the



Olympic eames, ii. .Alipherus, the son of Lycaon, ii.  .Aliphirus, ii. : .



Alitherset, the son of An:.‚Ñ¢, ii. *¬´  a statue of, iiia .



Alotia, gam<s so called, ii. .Alphcus, the rives, ii. .



, particulars of, ii.



..



-, * represcntatioal



of, ii. ..Alpheliboea, ii. .Alphius, a picture of, iii. .Alpius, i. .



Altar of all the gods in common, ii. .



Alcamenes and lolaus, i. jt.



"‚Äî Alpbeus and Diana, .



Ammon, iii. .



‚Äî Amphiaraus distributed inret



five parts, i. s. Androgcus, the sort of Minos,



. .



Anteros, ii. .Apollo, ii. . iii. .Apollo Acritas, i. ;.Apollo and Mercury, ii. <*Apollo Dionyfcdorus, i. ^Apollo, fore-feeing, i. .Apollo, Pythian, ii. .Apollo Thcrmios, it.Bacchus, ii.Bacchus and the Graces, ii.



¬ª-



- florid, i. .



‚ñ† Laoras, i. :.



- called Themidusj



ii.



Boreas, ii. .



‚ñ† Ceres, ii. .



 ‚Äî AnefidoTa, i. .



and Proserpine,ii.tJ.



‚Äî‚Äî Chalcioecus, -.



- <- children of Theseus ind Pha*<



lrrus, i. .



Concord, ii. -



‚ñ† crude tiles in Ahis, ii. .



the Curetes, ii. .



Despoina, ii. . ii..



‚Äî Diana, ii. .. .



rural Diana, ii.



Diana Coccoea, it.



Diana Forenfisv ii. .



Protothrouia, iii. to*



splendour-bearing, i.



Dictyes and Oymenes, i. .the Dioscuri, i. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî unicr the appeiw



¬´



lation os the Ambulii, i. S.‚ñ† ‚ñ† ‚ñ†‚ñ†‚ñ†‚ñ†¬ª Earth, i.. ii. .



Epimedes, Idat, P√¶oneus, and



Jasus, ii. .



‚ñ† ‚ñ† Erigane, ii. .



*-* Good Fortune, ii. *



Cods, the unknown, ii. .



Goddesses, the severe, i. .



‚Äî Hercules, i. .



 ‚Äî and Hebe, i. .



‚ñ† Parastates, ii. .



the Idaean Hercules, ii. .Heroes, i.J.Hours, the, ii. .Juno, ii. .



equestrian, ii. *



‚Äî Olympia, ii. .



Satnian, ii. .Jupiter Ambulius, i. ^.



Catsebatas, ii. .



Ceraunius, ii. .



‚Äî Ctefian, ii. ?.



Eleutherius, iii. .



‚Äî Forenfis, ii. .



Herceus, ii. .



‚ñ† Hercean, i. .



Laoetas and Neptune



Laoctas, ii. .



‚Äî. Lecheatas, ii. .



‚Ä¢ Lycean, ii. . .



‚Äî‚ñ† the Mild, i. .



the Most High, ii. .



¬´ ‚Äî- >- Olympian, ii. . .



the Perfect, ii. .



Phyxius, i. I.



‚ñ† ‚ñ† Pluvius, i. . .



‚Äî the Purifier, i. .



Semalean, i. .



t terrestrial, ii. .



Altars dedicated tojupiter, ii. .Altar of Iodamia, iii. .



‚ñ† Ismenides, the nymphs, i.  .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî. Laihria and Anaxandra, .



m Lone, i. . ii. .-.



‚ñ† l.ucina, ii. .



Mar, i:. . .



fqueftrian, ii. .



‚ñ† Melicerta, i. .



'Mercury, i . .



‚ñ† Enagonius, ii. .



‚ñ† Epimelius, iii. s.



‚ñ† ‚ñ† of the gods called Meilichioi,



iii. .



. Minerva, i.. ii. . .¬ª ... Ambulia, i. .



the Deprecatrix', i.



Diana, and Latona,



equestrian, i. .



Tithrone, U .Moirageta, ii. .Mother of the Gods, ii. .



-ii. *



.



i. .



ii. .



. 



the Muses, i. . . ii. .Neptune equestrian, i. g<



Heliconian Neptune, ii. .Neptune Isthmian, i. .Nymphs, ii. . .



Acmenai, ii. .



ii. .



Opportunity, ii. .Pan, i. . ii. . .Prometheus, .Pro'erpine first-born, i. ?.the Sun, i. . . .



-the Liberator, i. .



the subterranean gods, i. ,Themis, ii. .Venus, ii.  .Vesta, ii. .Victory, ii. .‚Ä¢ Vulcan, it.the unknown gods, i. J.white stone in Altis, ii. .



- Arcadia,ii.Cf¬´



the Winds, i. . iii. .



‚ñ† Zephyr, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî in Altis, upon which trumpet≠ers and criers contend after (he an'cient manner, ii. .



‚Äî ‚Äî in which the marriage of Her≠cules and Hebe is represented, i. .



‚ñ† , a picture os an, iii. .



, an ancient one among the



Uroegenians, i. .



- containing the dead body of



Hyacinthus, i.  .



Alsus, the river, ii.  t.



Althepus the son of Neptune, calledTr¬ªcen Althepia, i. .



Altis, the sacred grove of Jupiter, ii..



in Olympia, ii. -.



Alypus the statuary, ii. . iii.  %.



iii. .Alyattes, ii. .



Alyssos,an Arcadian fount<¬ªi, ii. .



, IS,



INDEX.



Amirynceus, ii. *



Anu'.hus,he city, ija. ico.



Am / ‚Ä¢: , i. *. IJ¬ª- ii. .



Amhcitut, the city, iii. *. .



‚Äî‚Äî the hero, iii. .



Ametltcho - the iiver, ii. .



Amcrtas, a victor in wrestling in the



. Olympic games, ii. .



Arnilus, the city, ii. : .;.



Aminius, the river, ii. :J.



Amphea, a small Vfefscnianciiy, ..



Amphialus, a picture of, iii. .



Amphianat, i.  ;.. -, a statue or, iii. .



Amphiaraus, i. *.



Amphiclea, the city, called by Hero≠dotus Ophitea, iii. .



Amphiclus, the great grandfather ofHector, ii. .



Amphictyon, the son of Deucalion,raised the first Grecian Sunedrlon,iii. .



AmrJiictyons,the musical games of the,iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚ñ† tlie particulars of, iii. .



Amphidamas, the son of Alcus, ii..Ampkiloclus, i. . ii. .



‚Äî the statue of i .



the sou of Amphiaraus,



i. .Amphimacus, ii. .Amphion, iii. .



the meaning of his drawing



stones together by the harmony of



bil lyre, iii. .'‚ñ†' the statuary, ii. .



Amphissa the daughter of Macareus,



iii. ‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî the city, iii. .Amphithemis, i. .AmphittM, the river, i..Amphotcrus, the Ion of Alcmzon, ii.



-.



Ampyx, the son of Pclias, ii. .Amycla the village, i. .Amyclai, i. i;o. ii. .Aniyclatus, thethroneof, its ornaments



described, i. ",‚Äî.Amyrnone. the river, i. .Ainyntas the Pancratialt, ii. gr.Amythion, the son of Crcthcus, re-



stoted the Olympic games, ii. .Anichdisis, i. .A/tacreon, i. . *?o.A.i, Uk gods called, various opi≠



nions of, iii. ;.Anapa  versos so called, i. .Anaphlystus the lono: Troczen, i. ‚ñ†: T.Anzuchidas a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. iz¬ª.Anauchidas, the l.lean pugilist, ii.



-



Anax, the son of Earth i. .. akingot'the Milesians, ii. ,Anaxagoras, the son of Ar^eus, i. ‚Ä¢ .Aiiaxander, a victor in the Olympic



chariot-race, ii. :‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî king of the Spartans, i. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî thesonofEurycrates, i. .Aiuxandrides, the son of Leon, i. .Anaiaitdrus, the son of Eurycrar.es,and



king of the Spartans, i. .Atuxtas, i. .Anaxihia. i .



Anaxidamui, the son of Zeuxidamtrs,and king of (he Spartans, i. . .Anaxilas, i. .



Anaximenes the loph.st, a statue of, Ac.



. >'‚ñ† ' S-.



Anaxippus Mendzus, ii. .Anaxirhoe, the daughter of Coronusr



ii. .



Ancarus, the son of Neptune, ii. .



the Ion of Lycurgus, ii. *.



Ancafius, the architect, iii. .Anchialus, a picture of. iii. .Anchionis the Laced√¶monian, i ¬´¬ªAncient, a Spartan town se called, i-.



Andania, aMcssenian city, i. .



‚ñ† the ruins ot, i. .



Andr√¶mon, ii. .



the fonofCodrus, ii. .



Andieas, the statuary, ii. .Andrews, the city, iii. .Andreus, a statue of, iii. .‚Äî- the son of the river Peneus,



iii. .



Andriscus, the son of Perseus, ii. .Androclea, iii. .Aodrocles, i.  t. . .Androclides, i. .Andtoclus the son os CodniJ, the trans≠actions f, ii. f ,Andromache, a picture of, iii. .Andropompus, iii. .Androsthenes, (he pancratiast, ii. too.Androtion, the Attic historian,iii.Ill*Angelion, the statuary, i. . iii. .Angclus, the son oi Neptune, ii. .



Anger,



 



t N ti E X. 



Anger of the gods, what it signifies,



iii. .Anigr√¶a, the town, i. .Anigrus, the river, !. . ii; , ;Anochus, a victor in the Olympic Cta¬ª



dium, li. .Antagoras, i. .Antalcidat the Spartan, iii. .Antander, i. .Antenor the statuary, i. .Anteros the d√¶mon, remarkable story



of, iii. act.Anthan, the son of Neptune, iii. .Anthas, a king of the Troeienians, i,



Anthea, the city, ii.Anthedcn, the city, iii. .‚ñ† ‚ñ† , the nymph, li.



Antlieus, a statue of Bacchus so called,ii. .



Anthracia, an Arcadian nymph, a stai



tue of, li. ?i.Antidea, the daughter of Dioclei, i.



Anticlca, the mother of UlyflKs, a pic≠ture of. iii. .Antimachus the poet, a verse of, 'L.



. , verses of, ii. .



Antiochui, king, sacred gists of, ii. .Anticyra, a city in Phocil, li. .Anticyreus, iii. .Antigonus, the son of Demetrius, ". .



‚ñ† * waraon the Athenians, i. j.



Antilochus, ii. .



, a picture of, iii. .Antimachus, a verse of, ii.  ia. iii. .Antimcnes, i. .Antinoe, the daughter of Cepheus, ii..



Antiochus, I. Jfi. iii. -.



 the Sicilian historian, iii.



- .*" a victor in the Olympic



pancratium, ii. or.Antiope, the daughter of Nysteus, i.



'¬∞- - . . ,‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî a statue of, . .



the Amazon, monument of,



i. 



"(lain byMolpadia, ii.



Antipater, i. . ii. .



; the son of Cassander, iii. .'



‚ñ†' a victor in boxinj ia th¬´. Olympic caai¬´, ii. $.



tot. III.



Antiphanet the statuary, ii. . iii.



. .Antiptiemus, ii. .Antiphilut the architect, il. .Antipoenus, iii. .Antitheus, the Athenian archon, ii.



ait.



Antoninus the emperor, ii.  .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî:‚Äî, instance of the



liberality of, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî, a senator, the workt of, i.



.



Anyte, a woman renowned for com*



poling verses, iii. .Anytus, one of the Titan-, it. a.Aones the, iii. .Aoris, the son of Aras, i. .Apelles, ii. ft. iii. .Aphareus, the sen of I'crieris, i. ijo¬ª



Aphetc, a road in Sparta, why so call*



ed, i. .Aphrtseuj, the statue of, i. .'Aphidas the son of Areas, ii. .Aphiodisias, the city, i. . ii. .Aphrodisiurn, ii. .Aphytis, a town in Pallene, i. .Apobathmi, or the landing-place, i,



Apoecus colonized the tones, ii. .Apollo Agyicus, a statue of, i.il. .



, a hraiest statue of, ii. .



, why called Alezieacus, ul.



:.



‚Äî‚Äî Amycleah, ..



'Boedromian, a statue of, iii.



‚Ä¢ Carneus, i. ?.Carynus, the pyramid*, i. T.Clariut, a braten statue of, i.



Corynthus, i. ^.Dlonysidotua, iii. (.Dirmdiotes, the statue of, U



Epicuriut, ii. .Iimenios, iii. .Maleatas, i. .Patrous, picture of, i. Alrticacus, picture of, iS,Polios, iii. .Pythian, a statue of, i. .A ciyiUu s, a statue el, it.



.



 



.



 



Afollfi



I M D E X.



Apollo, why Called Tutelaris, iii. S.¬´‚ñ† - ‚ñ† what it meant by his once hav≠ing laid his harp on a stone, iii. .‚Äî‚Äî why represented treading on



the head of an ox, iii. ,Apollonius the grammarian, his re≠markable account of large dead bo≠dies, iii. .



‚ñ† an Alexandrian pugilist, ii.



.



‚ñ†'  the Olympic pugilist, ii. $.



¬ª '- Rhodius, lines of, i. .



Apollophanes the Arcadian, i. .



Appius Claudius, the Roman, ii. .



Apuleius, extract from the Metamor≠phoses of, iii. .



Arabian Nights' Entertainments, oneof the stories in the, taken with somealteration out of Fausanias, iii. .



Arzthyrea, the daughter of Aras, i..



Araiuus, a place to called in Sparta, i.¬∞-



Arantinus, a hill so called, i-.Aras, the firstnjtiveof Phliafia, ..Aratus the Sicyonian, memorable



transactions of, i. , .-. - ‚Äî the general of the Slcyonians,



ii. .



. the fan of Cllnias, image of,



i. .



, a statue



of, ii. .‚Äî the son of √Üsculapius, i. . "Solenfis, i. J.Araxus, th\t promontory, ii. .Arcadia, the topography of, ii.Arcadians, the, justly punished for de≠serting the Greeks, ii. .‚ñ† ,particularsof the king≠



dom of the, to the destruction of theempire, ii. ‚Äî.



-, transactions of, in dif-



Archelaus, the son of Agesilaus, i. t J<¬ªArchias, the son of Aristsechmus, i.an.



Archidamus the son of Anaxidamus, andking of Sparta, i. .



Archidamus the sen of Anaxidamus,and king of Sparta, very much in≠jured the country of the Athenians,i. .



‚ñ† , the transactions of, i.



ferentwars, ii. , .> migrated into Megalo≠polis on aacount of in strength, ii.



Areas, the son of Callisto, ii. .‚Äî- Sqmolas, the statuary, iii. .Arcesilaus, a victor in the Olympic



horse-race, ii. . the painter, i. .



Archza, the city, ii. .AKhandcr,thesonosAchseus,ii. ,Archegetes, a. statue ft called, i. .



,.



‚ñ† ‚ñ† , a statue of, ii. ."the son of Agesilaus, astatue os, ii. . the son of Theopompus,



i. .



. a wrestler in the Olympic



games, ii. $.Archidius, it. .



Archilochus the poet, ii. . iii. iii.'.



Archimagoras, the daughter of Phillus,



ii. .



Archimedes, the Athenian archon, i.



¬∞- . . ¬´ ‚Ä¢



Archippus, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Archirhoe, ii. .Architelcs, ti. c.Archon Eponymus, the meaning of,



iii.



Ardalus the sen of Vulcan, the archi≠tect, according to the Troczeniaju,invented the pipe, i. .



Ardys, the sonosGyges, i. .



Areas, ii. .



Arene, the fountain, ii. .



'‚ñ† ", the ruinsof, ii. .Areopagus, i. .Aretnusa, ii. .



Are us, king os the Spartans, a statue of,ii. .



‚ñ† the father of Agenor, ii.  T.



'the son of Acrotatus, . .



of, ii. .



- the poet, i. .



Argalus, the son of Amyclas, i. .Argcus, i. .Argius, ii. {.



Argives, the only Grecians who weredivided into three kingdoms, L .



¬´ , the, from the earliest periodwere advocates for liberty and laws‚Ä¢f their own nuking, i. .



Argil*



INDEX. *



Argive historians not ignorant thatseme of their relations are false,i. .



Argives subverted the kingdom of the



Tirynthians? i. .Argot, a plain in Arcadia, ii. ,Argyra, ii. .



Aria, a part of Asia, once so called,'-



Ariadne, a picture of, iii. .



Aridaeus, ii. ,



Arieus, i. .



Arimaspi, the, i.  iii. ..



Arimncstus, a statue of, iii. .



Arimnus, king of the Etrusci, a throne



of, ii. .Arion, the harper, a Halite oft i. J J.



iii. i.



Arion, the horse, ii. .



Aris, the river, i. .



Arista;us, the son of Apollo, iii. .



Aristander the Farian, the statuary,



. h "'  .,



Aristandrea, an Arcadian porch, IL



Aristarchur, the Olympic historiaa, ii.



si-



Anitas, ii. .



Aristeas, the Proconnesian poet, ii. .



Aristeas, a victor in ihe Olympic pan≠cratium, and ia wrestllag, ii. .



Aristera, the island, i. .



Aristides, a victor in the Olympicarmed race, ii. .



Aristion, a victorious pugilist in theOlympic games, ii. .



Aristo, the son of Agafides, i. .



Aristodes Cydionates, the statuary, ii.¬ª. .



Aristocratct, the son of JEehmit, ii.



.



Aristocrats, king of the Arcadians,corrupted by the Lacedemonians*i. .



‚ñ†‚Ä¢‚ñ† ‚ñ† * shameful conduct of, i.



S.



 ‚Äî stoned to death hy the



Arcadians for his treachery, t..



Aristodama, the mother Of Aratui, i.r.



Aristodemus, king of the Meffenians,i. .



‚ñ†".   hindered from fcrifitiaghis daughter, i. jj.



Aristodemus dejected by prodigies, i¬ª



-



- ‚ñ† , death of, IiiAristodemus, Ihe wrestler, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî king of the Megalopoli-



tans, ii. S.Aristogitorii i. Aristogiton, the statuary, iii...Aristomache, a picture of, iii. .Aristomaehus, ii. .Aristomcdcs, the statuary, iii. .Aristomedon, the statuary, iii. .'Aristomclidas, ii. .Aristomenes, the Rhodian victor in theOlympic pancratium, aad in wrest≠ling, ii. .Aristomenes, the Messenian, i. .‚ñ† was honoured by the



Meffenians 'as a hero, i. .. ti . ‚ñ† instigates the better fortof Meffenians to reyolt, i.  .



‚Äî , the transactions of, in the



battle at Dera, i. .



, in the battle near tho



tomb of Carpus, is surrounded byeighty chosen Meffenians of the)fame age with himself, i. .



‚ñ† puts the Laced√¶monian*



to flight, i..



 ‚ñ† ‚ñ† is recalled from his pur*suit of the Spartans, by Theoclus¬ª



- loses his shield, /*.‚Ä¢ returns in tri



Andania, ii.



‚Ä¢ ascends into the adytum



of Trophonius, and finds his shield,



j. *



'marches to Pharis, which



he sacks, it.



‚Äî overthrows the Laced√¶≠monians, and pursues their kingAnaxander, ii.‚Ä¢ ‚Ä¢ is wounded in his thigh,/.‚Ä¢ ‚ñ† is deterred from marchinginto Sparta, by seem; the spectresof Helen and the Dioictiri, .c.



- attacks in open day the



Car; an virgins, ii.



 * is taken prisoner by thewoman of √Ügila, ti



‚ñ† is rescued by Archidamta)



i. S.



Ira, i



Ik*



‚Ä¢ retreats  tin mountain



INDEX.



Aristomenes plunders the



nians, i. .‚ñ† is struck to the ground,



and taken prisoner by the Laced√¶-i. .



- it thrown into the Ceadas,



a deep chasm, but is miraculouslysaved, ii.



. afterwards attacks and



slays many of the forces, of theCorinthians, i. .‚Äî‚Äî offers a sacrifice called



Hecatomphonia, to Jupiter Itho-matas, it.



‚ñ† is taken prisoner by seven



Cretan archers, but is released bya virgin,dream, i. .



consequence of



‚Ä¢ buries in Ithome some≠thing belonging to arcane myste≠ries, i. .



‚Ä¢ forces a passage through



the Spartans, and escapes, i. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, stratagem of, i. .



- appoints Gorgus arid Man-



ticius to be the leaders oftheMes-



senians at Cyllene, i. .



¬ª * dies in Rhodes, i. .



Aristomcnidas, i. .



Ariston, the seventh grandson os The-



opompus,. i. .Aristonaut√¶, a haven of the Pellene-



ans, i. .Aristonous, the statuary, ii. .Aristophanes, ii. II.¬´‚ñ† ‚Äî the poet, a citation from



the Scholiast on, iii. .Aristophon, a v ictorious pancratiast in



the Olympic games, ii. tax.Aristotimus, the sen of Damarelus,



reigned in Hlea, ii.  r.Aristotle the Stagiritc, a statue of, ii.



.



Arpinna, the daughter of Asopni, ii. .



Armour, to put on, called by the an≠cients begirding, iii. .



Army, the first that left Greece, tedby Oenotrus, the son of Lycaon,ii. .



Aroanius, the river, ii. .



Aroeus, a statue of Bacchus so called,ii. .



Arrhachion the pancratiast, a statue



of, ii. .Airhoo, (he soa-of Clymenut, iii. ft.



Arriphon, said to have instituted tfft



Lern√¶an mysteries, i. .Arse, the river, ii. .Arlinoitet, an Egyptian tribe se called)



ii. .



Artcmidorus Trallianus, a victor iathe Olympic pancratium, ii. .



Artemisia, a statue of, i. t% r.



Artont.es> the sen of Mardonius, id.-



Asamon, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Af√¶a, the city, ii. .Ascalaphus, the son of Mars, iii. Si.Ascarus, the statuary, ii. .Afclepius Trallianus, the etymon of



wisdom of, from his MSS. Scho).



on the Arithmetic of Nicomachus,



iii. .



A sea, ii. .Afinxi, the, i. .-Afine, an Argive town, besieged andtaken by the Laced√¶monians, i. *Asms, the poet, i. . . ii. .



. iii. .



‚Äî ‚Äî, verses of, ii. .



Asin√¶i, the, i. .



Asepus, a king of the Platzenfcs, its.



.



Asepus, the river, i. .‚ñ†' ‚ñ†, daughters of, it.



 



‚Äî‚Äî, the banks of, produce large



bulrushes, ii. .Asepus, the city, i. .Aspledon, the city, iii. . .Aspledon, the sen of NeptudV, [iii..



Asterion, the river, i. .



‚ñ† the statuary, ii. .



'e son of Cometas, ii. jr.. the sen of Anax, ii. .- the sen of Minos, slain byTheseus, i. .Asterius, the island, i. . cAsterodia, the wife of Endymionj ii..



Asteus, the Athenian Archon, ii. .



iii. .Astrya, i. .



Astyages, trie son of Cyixares, ii. .Astylus, a victor in the Olympic re≠peated course, ii. r .Astynous, a picture of, iii. .Astypalaea, the daughter of Phonix, ii.



INDEX.



Atalanta, i. . ii. ;.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, the curricula of, ii. .Athamas, the son of Oenopion, ii. .iii. So.



Athamantios, the plain, iii. .Athens, a B≈ìotian city, iii. *.Athen√¶um, ii. .Athenzus, iii. .Athen√¶us, the Ephesian pugilist, lu-



Athene, the town, L .



Athenian islands, an account of, i.



, .Athenians surpassed other nations in



piety to the gods, i. ;.Athera, i. .



Athletz, the habitations of, in Olym-pia, ii. .



Athmonensians, palace of, i. .



Atiliusthe Roman general, ii. .



Atlas, the great height of, successfullyemployed by Proclus as an argu≠ment far the truth of the Platonictheory of the Earth, iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, the magnitude of, according tothe √Üthiupian historians, ii.



Atreus, the sous of, a picture of, iii.-



Attaginus, the Theban, ii. .Attalus, greatest exploit of, i. at.Attalus and Ptolemy, the transactions



of, i. ij‚Äî.Attalus, Icing of Pergamus, iii. .Attes, the hiltory of, according to die



Gauls, ii. .Atthis, i. .



Attis and Dindymcne, the fable of, ex≠plained, iii. .Avcrrunci, the, iii.



Auge, the daughter of Aleus, ii. asio., a picture of, iii. .



Augeas, the son of Eleus, ii. .



Augustus, in the Greek tongue, sig≠nifies venerable, i. .



Augustus Czsar, i. . . ..



, statue of, ii. $.^‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî laid waste Calydon and



the other parts of √Ütolia, ii. .‚Äî caused Patr√¶ to be re¬ª



inhabited, ii. .‚ñ† subverted the country



of the√Ütolians, in order to people'Nicopolis, iii. ,A.il. , the city, iji. .



Aulon, i. .



Autesion, the son of Tisamc.ius, iii.



- . ...



Autolycus, the pxncratiast, liu ;.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî the son of Mercury, ii.



.



Automate, Use daughter of Danau*,



ii. .Autonoe, i. .



, the symbolical signification



of, iii. .Autosthenes, the Athenian archon,



i. .Auxesia, i. ].



Auxo, one of the Graces, according



to the Athenians, iii. .Axeus, the son of Clymenus, iii. .Axion, a picture of, iii. .



- the son of Phegeus, ii. &* ‚ñ†Azan, the son of Areas, ii. .



B.



BACCH√Ü, statues of, i. .Baccheus, a statue so called, i. .'Si-



Bacchiad√¶, Corinthian kings so called*



Bacchis, the sen of Prumnil, H.Bacchus Cephallen, a brazen image ofthe head of, iii. . Bacchus Dasyllius, i. *.



, why represented holding ‚Ä¢



torch, iii. .



, why called Melpomenos, iii.



.



‚Äî‚Äî, the Saviour, a wooden statue



of, i. .‚Äî‚Äî, the meaning of the sable os,



in which he is said to have led back.



Vulcan to heaven, iii. }.



, why called Nyctelius, iii.



.



‚Äî, why called Psila, or wings,



iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, the, who first led an army tothe Indies, not a god, but a hero,iii. .



Bacis, the wrestler, ii. .



, the prophet, predictions of, i.



‚ô¶'$‚Ä¢



was inspired by a



Nymph, iii. .



B b  Bacis,



 INDEX.



th¬´



Bacis, the arades of, iii. .Bady, a place se called



E'.eans, ii, .Balanagrx. a people belonging to the



Cyrenseans, i. aVII.Balyra, the river, i. .Banchidz, li. .



Bannier, the Abbe, hit impudent man≠ner of explaining the fable of theMinotaur, iii. . ‚Ä¢Basilit the city, ii. ,Bathiclej Magnesius the statuary,'!. ¬∞-Bathos, a place in Arcadia, ii. .Baths, Corinthian, i. .Bathyllui, the fountain, ii. .Baton, ii .. a statue of, Hi. t .Batrachius,a place of judgment among



the Athenians, i. a.Battlesof the gods, the meaning of the,



iii. .Battus Therarui, i. .



, a statue as, iii. .



Bears, whitCj ii. .Bed-chamber, a brazen one, among the



Argives, i. .Bees, Haliionian, i. .Be.emina, the city, ii. .Bclistiche. victor in the Olympic



race with two mules, ii. .Bellerophon, i . .Beloe, Mr. extract from his translation



of Herodotus, iii. .Belus, the son of Libye, i. c.Bias, a king of the Argives, i .¬´.‚Äî., the son of Amyihaon, I. .



‚ñ† Prienensis, iii. .



Biblis the fountain, ii. .Bidi√¶af, the palace of, i ;.Bidizi, the Spartan, I. .Bison, the P√¶oman bull, the manner



of hunting of, iii .Biton, a statue of, i. .Boagrius, the river, ii. .Boars, white, ii. .Bot√¶ a city of the Elcutheto'acones,



i. .Borx, the city, i. .Boeo, the poetess, verses of, iR. .Boeotus, the sen of Itonus, iii. i.Boethus, the statuary, ii. .Boeus, one of the sons of Hercules, i.



%n-



Bolei, the, heaps of chosen stones socalled, i. ,



Bolgius, the Gallic general, iii.  J<Boline, the city, ii. .Bolinatus. the river, ii.Booneta, a place in Spam se called,



i. :¬´!.Boreas, li. $.



Bouleuterion. the rcadian, ii. .Branchyllid-s, a B≈ìotian chief, iii. .Brafix, a city of the Eleutherolacones,i. '



Brass, why dedicated in particular t¬´Dodon√¶an Jupiter, iii. .'‚ñ† , why called vocal by Homer,ii.



, according to the Pythagoreans^accords with every diviner spirits



w,



Brauron. the town, i. .Brennus, the Gallic geneial, ill. ,Brenthe the city, ruins of ii. .Brentheates, the river li. .Brigantians, the, in Britannia, ii. S.Brimias, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii.  ;c.Brifa, the town, i.  '.Briscis, a picture of, iii. .Britomartis. the offspring of Jupiter and



Carme the daughter of Eubulus, i.



"-



,  r , what a compound of, iii..



Broteas, the sen of Tanjalus, the sta≠tuary, i. .Bryas, the injurious conduct of, i. S,Bryaxis, the statuary, i. .Bucephala the promontory, i. .Bucolion, the son of L√¶as, ii. ..Bulis, the city, iii. .Bulls, P√¶onjan, iii- .Bunus, the son of Mercury, i. .Bupalus, the architect and statuary, i.



. iii. .Buphagium, ii. .Buphagus, the river, ii. ,



‚ÄîI , the hero, the son of Japetui



and Thornax, ii. .Buphonus, a priest so called, i. .Bura, an Achaian city, ii. .Bura, the daughter of Ion, ii. Z.Buraicus, the river, ii. .Butas, a victorious pugilist in the Olym.



pic games, ii. .Bycellus, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Byzas, ii, .



cabir¬ª;a



 



I N D E X. ls



C.



CABIRI, the, the same with the Cu≠re tes, according Co their mundanesubsistence, iii. .



C¬ªbirian Ceres and Proserpine, agrove of, iii. ;.



Cachalct, the river, iii. .



Cadmea, the city, iii. .



Cadmus, i. .



, the symbolical signification of,



iii. .



, the meaning of the marriage



of, with Harmonia, iii. .C√¶ruepolis, the town, i. . .Cagaco, the fountain, i. .Caicus, the river, ii. .Caius, the Roman emperor, iii. .Calamae, the village, i. .Calamis, the statuary, i. . ii. .



. iii. . . . .Calaurea, the island, i. . iii. .Calchas, ii. .



Callias, the sen of Lyismachides, iii..



Callias, the Olympic pancratiaft, iii*-



Callicles, the statuary, ii. .Callicratcs caused the Achaians,



through perdition, to become subject



to the Romans, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî, a victor in the armed course



in the Olympic games, ii. .'Callignotus, ii. .Calliroachus, the statuary, i. iii. .



, extract from the hymn



of, to Apollo, iii. .Callipatera, ii. .Calliph√¶a, the Nymph, ii.  j?.Calliphon, the painter, iii. .CaUippus, the historian, iii. ¬£.Calliihoe, the fountain, ii. .



, the daughter of Achelous,



ii. ?.



Callis, the pancratiast, ii. .Callistephanos, the name of a will



olive-tree in Olympia, ii. .Callisto, the daughter of Lycaon, i. .



ii. .



, a pic



tureof, iii. .Allistonicus, the statuary, iii.Calliteles, the statuary, ii. .



. ‚Äî, a victorious wrestler in the



Olympic games, ii. .



Callon √Üginetei, the statuary, ..



. ii. . .‚Äî‚Äî, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Calynthus, the statuary, iii. .Calyphon, the painter, ii. .Cambaules, the Gallic general, iii.



Camels, Indian, iii. ,



Camiro, the daughter of Pandarus, a



picture of, iii, .Caoachus, the statuary, i. . ii. .



. hi. . .Canephores, virgins so called, i. *



‚Äî‚Äî , why so called, iii. .



Cantharus, the statuary, ii* .Capanetis, the son of Hipponous, iii ‚Ä¢ .Capetus, ii. .



Caphareus, a promontory of Euboea, i.*



Caphya, the city, ii. .Caprificus, i. III.



Caprus, the wrestler and pancratiast,



ii. , .Car, the son of Phoreneus, . $.Caranus, king of Macedonia, iii. .Cardarayle, i. .Cardan Hierenymus, i. . .Cardias, the plains of, i. ,Cares, the, ii. .Caria, the tower, i. ,Carnalis, the city, iii. .Cirnalium, a town of the Messcnians,



ii. -Carnasius, the grove, i. .Cameus, i. ..Carnion, the river, ii. .Carnius, a grove of Apollo, near Phi.



ne, I. ;.Carpeia, a city of Iberia, ii. .Carpus, a name of c of the seasons,



Iii. .Cary√¶, i. .Cassander, i. .



rebuilt Thebes, through hit



hatred of Alexander, iii. .



 deservedly punished for his



guilty conduct, it.



Cassandra, ii. .



, a picture of, iii. .



Cassotis, the fountain, iii. .



Castalia, the water of, iii. .



Castalius, iii. .



Castorides, gate* fa Called in Sparta.



i. .



B b  Catalogu



 



il I N D E X.



Catalogue os women, the, a poem sajd



to be written by Hesiod, i. .Catreus, ii- .



Caucon, the sen of Celainus, i. .



Cavern under the Athenian tower, andits contents, i. .



Caupius Protogencs, the painter, i. .



Carder, the river, ii. .



Cecrops.'i. . ii. .



Cecyrina, an Achaian city, ii. .



Celadus, the river, ii. .



Celaen√¶, the town, i. .



Celbidas, according to some, the foun≠der of Tritia, ii. .



Cele√¶, a place among the Phliasians,in which the mysteries of Ceres arecelebrated, i. .



Celenderis, the town, i. .



Celeuthea, a statue so called by Ulysses,



i. $.



Cenchre√¶, i. . .



Cenchreas, i. .



Cenchrius, the river, ii. .



Cephalenia. i. .



Cephallen the harper, iii. .



Crphalus, i. no. .



Cepheus, the sen of Aleus. ii. .



Cephisidorus, the general of the Athe≠nian horse, ii. f.



Cephisodotus the statuary, ii. . iii.. .



Cephissodotus,tJ¬ªe B≈ìotian commanqer,



iii. .Cephislis, the lake, iii. . .Cephissus, the river, i. . iii. .Ceramicus, i. .



Cerberus, what ii signified by Herculesdragging him up from Hades, iii..



Cercyon, i. .



r the pal√¶stra of, i. Us.



Ceres, why called Anesidora, iii.  j .



‚Ä¢ -, beautiful account of, from theMSS. Scholia of Proclus on the Cr a-tylus, iii. .



‚Ä¢ black, a statue of, ii. .



‚ñ† asacicd cavernof, ii.,.



; Cidaria, an effigy of, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî, why called Chthonia, iii. .



‚ñ† called Erinnys by the Thel-



pusii, ii. .‚Äî called Lusia by the Arcadians,



ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, why called Protasia, iii.* ‚Äî‚Äî, why called Ttcsinophoros, iii.



Cereflus, the town, iii. .Cerethrius, the Gallic general, iii,



Cerynea, the town, u. .Cerynes, i. .Cerynites the river, ii. ,Ccyx, i. .



Chaereas, the Sicyonian pugilist, ii.



.



Chalcitis, a place so called io Erytbric,



ii. .



Chalcodon, ii. .



Chaidaeans and Magi, the first that as≠serted the soul of man was immortal,



i. .



Chaos, why said by Hcfiod to be thefirst thing that was generated, iii..



Characoma, a place se called in Spar≠ta, i. ?i.Charadra, the city, iii. . .Charadrus, the torrent, i. . ,



ii. . iii. .Charilaus, i. .



Charillus, the Jon of Polydectes, i.zbi.



‚Äî led an army against the Te¬ª



geat√¶ ii. ].Charmidas, the son of Euthys, L IU.Charinus, a victor in the Olympic



games, ii .Charisia, the city, ii. .Charisms, ii.



Charon, the ferryman of Hades, a



picture of, iii. .Charon, the son of Pytheus, iii. ilj.Chartas, the statuary, ii - -Cherronesus, ii. yj.Chersias the poet, verses of, iii. .Chest in tbe temple of Juno, descriptionof the, ii. .



Chii, the particulars of, according ta



the poet Ion, ii. .Children, how justly punished for the



crimes of their parents, iii. .Chilon, ii. II.



. Achatus, the wrestler, ii. ,



.



‚ñ† , the Spartan, iii. .



Chimarrus, the river, i. .



Chione, i. ill.



Chionis, Laco, i. .



Chionis, a victor in the Olympic



games, U. .Chios, a city of the Iones, ii. .



¬£hi-



 



I N D E X. 



Chirisophus, she statuary, ii..Chiron the centaur, of what the em≠blem, iii. .Chius composed a hymn t¬ª Opportunity,



ii. .



Chloris, the statue of, i- .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, a picture of, iii. .Choerilus, the statuary, ii. .Choerius, the grove, i .Chryse,thedaughterofH.ilmus, iii. .Chryfes. the sou of Neptune, iii. '.Chrysis, the priest of Juno, i .Chrysogenea, the daughter of HJmui,



iii. ;, .Chryforrhoas, the river, i. .Chi ysothemis, the statuary, ii. .



 , the son of Carmanor,



iii.  xCicero, iii. .Cillas, ii. .



Cimon, the son of Miltiades, found thebonei of Theseus, i. .



‚ñ† ‚ñ† ‚ñ†, an inven≠tion of, ii. .



Cinaethon, the poet, ii. .



', the Laced√¶monian, who



ganealogized in verse, i. .



Circe, ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, an account of, from the MSS.Schol. of Proclus on the Cratylus, iii.



Cirrha, ahayen of the Delphi, iii. .



I. .



, the nymph, iii. .Cissa, the fountain, ii. .Cilsata, a wooden statue ot Minerva so



called, i. .Cisseus, iii. .Cisui, i. . .Cith√¶ron, a king os the Plataeenses,



iii. . .



‚ñ†  ‚ñ† ‚ñ†> the mountain, i. .



CitSsrronius, a lion so called, i J.



fines, the names of the, that fought



, against Mardonius and the Msdesatflatxa, ii. .



-, the names of, which were per≠suaded by the Arcadians to choosefor themselves new habitations, ii.



- that have been irreparably injur≠ed through the baseness of their in.hfabitan's, instances of, iii. Cladeus, the river, a representation of,



Claudius, the Roman emperor, ii. ,



Clazomenae, the city, ii. .Clearchus, the statuary, iir .Clearetlus, a victor in the Olympic



quinquertium, ii. .Cleobis and Hi ton, statues of, i. .Cleoboea, a picture of, iii. .Cleobulus, the Lindian, iii. i"].Cleodice, a picture of, iii. .Cieoeus, the statuary, ). . --. tht first that framed the bar*



nersforthe Olympic games, iii. ,Cleogencs, a victor in the Olympic



games, ii. .Clcolas, ii. .Cleolaus, ii.  .



Cleombrotus, Icing  f the Laccdzrao.nians attacks the B≈ìotians at Leuc-tra, i. .



Cleomedes, the pugilist, ii. .



Cleomenes, the son of Leonidas, dis≠position of, i. .



-, war about Silafia, Rightand death of, i. , .



 , the son of Anaxaadridet,makes an incursion into Argolis,i. .



‚ñ† pastes into √Ü¬∞ina,i. Jt>



- accused by Demaratus, ii.



- dies insane, ib.



‚ñ† -, the younger son of Cleom≠brotus, i. $.



Cleon, the statuary, ii. . . . ., . .



‚Äî‚Äî, the Magnesian, iii. .



Cleooat, an Argolic city, L .



Cleounis, i. .



Clconymus, the son of Cleomenes, i..



Cleopatra, the daughter ol Idas, i.!-



Cleopompus, iii. .



Clcopus, the son of Codrus, ii. *



Clcolthenes, a victor in the Olympic



games, ii. .Cleostratus, the destroyer of a dragori



that infested the city Thespia, iii.



-



Clepsydra, the fountain, i.  z.



Cleso, i. .Cleson, i. .



Climax, a place in Arcadia, ii. ;.Clinomachus, a victor in the Olympic



quinquerclum, ii. .Clisthcncs, i. .



CliAhcneif



*



 



¬ª I N D fe X.



Clisthenes, a victor in the Pythian



chariot race, iii. .Clisthenia, a porch so called, i. .Clitodemus, the Attic historian, iii. .Clitomachut, a famous victor in the



Olympic games, ii. :.Clitor, the son of Azan, ii. .



, the city, ii. +.



Clymcne, a picture of, iii. . .Clymenus, the sen of Prefton, iii. -i.



, the son of Cardis,established



games in Olympia, ii* .Clytie, the daughter of Pandarus, a



picture of, iii. .Cocalus, king of Inycus, ii. .Coccos, the bramble, called by the



Gauls Us, iii. .Cock, the, a bird sacred to the sun, iii,



*-



Cocks, Tanagrzan, called Cossuphoi,



or black birds, iii. .Cocytus, i. .Codrus, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî, the son of Melanthus, ii. J,Coerius, the thicket, i.  .Colias, promontory of, ..Colecaus, i. .Culoenis, a statue of, i. .Colonidcs, the, i.  .Colance, a Trojan town, iii. .Colontas, i. .



Colophoolans, the, sacrifice a caninewhelp to K nodi an Hecale, i. .



, warred on the Ma≠cedonians, ii. .



Colossal statue in Thebei of a verysingular nature, i. .



Colotes, che, made a table of ivory andgpld sor the temple of Juno, amongthe Eleans, ii. '.



Com√¶tho the priestess, ii..



Combutis, a commander of the Cauls,unparalleled cruelty of, iii. .



Cometus, the son of Tisamenus, ii,.



Comosandalus, the flower, i. a.Conchites, the stone, i. .Coudyle√¶, a place in Arcadia, ii. .Conon, the son of Timotheus, i. *.



. ii. .



 a dream of, i. a.



Consolatrix, the goddess, a statue of,



i. .



Constellation, called the Goat, injuri≠ous to vines, i. .



Coos, the island, I. J.Copz, the city, iii. .Corcyra, the daughter of Asopus, ii,.



Corcyraica, a porch so called by the



Eleans, ii. .Coresus, a priest of Bacchus, remark≠able story of, ii. .Corinna, the poetess, iii. .



- vanquished Pindar at Thebes,



in the composing of verses, and why



she did so, iii. S.Corinthians, more ancient, an account



of the, i.  J.Corinthian kings, an account of, i..Conn thus, i. .



Coroekus, the sen of Mygdon, a picture



of, iii. .Corone, the city, i..Coronis, a wooden statue of, i. *Coronus, the sen of Therlar.der, iii.



.



Corsea, the town, iii. e;.



Corybas, the fame with the fun, iii.



Corycia, the Nymph, iii. .Corycium, the cavern, iii. . ,Coryphasium, the promontory, i. .Cosmeterium, i. iej.Costoboci, the, a band of robbers, iii..



Cotyos, a porch se called, . :.Cranae, the island, i. :.Cranaus, i .



Craneum, a grove of cypresses f¬´



called, i. .Cratacmcnes, the Samian, i. .Cralhis, the river, ii. -Cratinus, a victor in wrestling in the



Olympic games, ii. .



, the statuary, ii. no.



Cratisthenes, a victor in the Olympic



horse-race, ii. .Craugis, the father of Philopoemen, &.



.



Crauxidas, a victor with the horse in



the Olympic games, ii. .Creon, the son of Menocceus, iii. .Crel'phontes, the son of Aristomachis,



i. .. . ii. . .Crefus, ii. .



Crethon, the son of Diocles, i. .Creugas, the Kpidamnian pugilist, par-



ticulars of, ii. ..Creusa, a picture of, iii. .



Creusiij



 



I N Is E X. 



‚Ä¢rtufis, a haven of the Thespians, iii.?.



Crianius, a victor in the armed Olym≠pic course, ii. .



Criophylus, i. J.



CTison Himerseus, victor in the Olym≠pic stadium, ii. .



Crises, the son of Phocut, i. .



Criterion, the, or tribunal os judgment)



i. .



Critias, the statuary, i. . ii. .Critobulus, iii. .Ciitodamus, the pugilist, ii. .Critolaus, i. ;.



‚ñ† persuades the AchaSani to



take up arms against the Romans,



ii. .-, the flight and death of, ii.



.



Crius, the river, . .‚ñ†  , the prophet, i. .



, a king of Euboea, iii. .



Croceae, a Laced√¶monian village, i.



.Crocon, i. nr.



‚Äî‚Äî, a victor in the Olympic games



with the vaulting horse, ii. .Cr≈ìsus, i.  ;r>, ii. .Cromi, the city, ii. .Cromion, a Corinthian town, i. ,Cromitii, the village, ii. .Crommyonian boar, the meaning of



the, iii. .Cromus, ii. .Cronius, ii. ,Crotalus, it.Crotani, the, i. KCrotoniatz, report of the, concerning



H>len, i. .Crotopus, i. . .Crows, the island of.in Arcadia, ..Crytones, the city, iii. }.Cteatus, the son of Actor, ii. J., Ctefias, the historian, iii. .Ctefippus, the son of Hercules, i. .Cthonia, an appellation of Ceies, i,



.



Cthonias, the Spartan, iii. .



Cuckoo, the meaning of Jupiter chang≠ing himself into a, iii. .



Cuma, a country belonging to the O-pici, a people of Campania, ii. .



Curetes, the,an explanation os.iii. .



Cyana, the daughter of ScyUii, a sta≠tue of, iii. Jj:,



Cyanippus, the son of √Ügialaos, i.



. .



Cyathus, the boy, the wine-bearer of



Ueneus, i. .Cyclops, the, a gate made by them, i.



.



made the wall in Tirya-



thui, i.Medusa,



.



- madei. st.



- built



its.



a stone head of



the walls of TiryrJk.



i. .



Cycni√¶ eagles so called, which intheir whiteness resemble swans, ii.



Cycnus, the sen of Neptune, . . iii..



‚ñ† . , the meaning of the metamor≠phosis of, into a swan, iii. .Cydias, the Athenian, iii. .Cydon, ii. .Cydonia, the city, iii. io-<Cydonus, a statue of, ii. tj.Cylarabes, the son of Sthenelus,Cylarabus, gymnasium of, i. .Cyllen. the son of Elatus, ii. J.Cyllenas, the son of Elatus, ii. Cyllene, the harbour of the E



ii. .



Cylo, a braien statue of, i. a.



Cylon, i. . ii. .



Cymon, i. .



Cyn√¶thaenses, ii. .



, the, H. .



Cynisca, the daughter of Archidamus,i. . ii. .



Cyniscus, the pugilist, ii. .



Cynurenscs, the, were colonized by Cy-narus the son of Perseus, i. .



Cyphantes, the, i. .



Cyprian verses, the author of the, i.. iii. .



Cypselai, chests so called by the Co≠rinthians, ii. .



Cypselus, the Corinthian king, i, ii. . .



Cypselus, the son of√Üpytus, ii. .



Cyrnos, the island, iii. .



Cyrus the elder, deserved to be calledthe lather of mankind, ii. .



Cythera, i. .



Cytherus, the river, ii. .



D√ÜDALAj



*d IN]‚Ä¢ E X.



D.



D√ÜDALA, the greater ind letter,



iii. .



D√¶dalus, i, . . . H. SS. .‚ñ† descended from that royal



Athenian family, called Metionidx,



ii. IJ.



Dcdalus, two of the works of) iii. .ia.



D√¶mons, xeSx or according to



habitude, an account of, iii.  J.Dztondas, the statuary, ii.  ?.Daimenes, the son of Tifamenus, ii.



S.



Daiphancs, iii. . .Daippus, the statuary, ii. . .Damagetus, king of Ialyfus, i. ,‚Äî‚Äî -, a victor in the Olympic



pancratium, ii. .Damafcius, extract from the treatise of,



on principles, Hi. .Damalias, the son of Pcnthilus, ii. .Damifichthon, the son of Codrus, ii.



".



 , , a king of the ThcbajiSf



iii. .Damasolratus, iii. .Damasus, ii. .Dameon, ii. ;.



Damias, the statuary, iii. .Damis, chosen general of the Meffenian



forces, i. .Damiscus, a victor in the Olympic



games, ii. .Damithales, ii. .Damoclidas, iii. .Damocus, ii. .Damon, the Corinthian, i. .‚Äî‚Äî  theThuriait, i..‚ñ†  , the son of Euctemon, ii. .Damonicus, ii. .Damnshilus, iii. .Damophon, the statuary, i. , ii.



. J¬ª-Damoxenidas, the pugilist, ii. too.Danaus, king, i. . . .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, a statue of, iii. .Daphne and Lcucippus, the story of,



ii. .



‚ñ†r chosen by Earth priestess of the



oracle of Apollo, iii. .Dascylus, the village, i. :.Dasea, the city, ii. .Patit, the Mcde, iii. .



Daulis, the cits) iii. teS.



Daulis the nymph, the daughter of C*¬ª



phissus, iii. III.Decadarchs, the, iii. .Dcgmenus



Deidamia, the daughter of Pyrchui, i.-



Deinomoe, a picture of, iii. .Deioneus, i. .



Deiphontes, the son of Antirr.achus, i...



Del ion, a place in the country of theTanagrxans, iii..



Delphic temple, an account of the of≠ferings in the, iii. IJ J.



Delphinium, a tribunal in Attica, i..



Delphos, the son of Apollo and Thyia¬ª



iii. .



‚Äî, the temple of, by whom plunidered, iii. .Delta, i. .



Demaratus, the son of Aristomenes, i..



, the son of Aristo, i. a..‚Äî, the first that conquered in



the race with Oiiclds, in the Olynv.



pic games, ii. ,‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, a victor in the armed course



in the Olympic games, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. :. , a victor in the armed Py-



thian course, iii. .Demarchus, the pugilist, ii. .Demarmenut, ii. .Demetrius, the sen of Philip, subjectel



Messenc to the Macedonians, i. .Demo, the prophetess, iii. .Democles, the Athenian archon, iii.



.



Democrates, a victorious wrestler inthe Olympic games, ii. .



Democritus, the statuary, ii. .



Demonafla, the sister of Amphiloeuj,i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, the daughter of AmphiaT



rails, iii. .Demophon, i. .



, a picture of, iii. .Demosthenes, statue of, &c. i. .



, i. .



, extract from the first ora.



tion of, against Aristogiton, iii. ,Deritus, ii, .



Derrbjo*,



 



INDEX.



Derrhion, !. .pespoina, a sacred grove of, ii. .Dexamcnus, king of the Olenians, ii.J>Dizus, the Megalopolis an, circumvents



the Achaians, ii. .Dizus, general of the Achaians, the



madness of, ii. .Diagon, the river, ii. .Diaguras, the son of Damagetus, ..Diagorid*, the, It.



Diallus, a victor in the Olympic pan≠cratium, ii. .



Diana, why represented at  huntress,iii. .



‚ñ† accustomed to be present at thecelebration of her mysteries, iii. .



, why called Ariste and Calliste,iii. .‚Ä¢‚Äî‚Äî Amaryfia, i. .



‚Äî Cedreatis, a statue of, ii. .



‚ñ† Cnagia, the particulars oft i..



- Derrhiatis, a statue of, i. . Ephesia, a statue of, i. . V



called Eurippa by Ulysses, ii.



.



‚Ä¢ Isoria, i. .



‚Ä¢ Laphria, i. .



‚ñ† called Ephesia by all cities, ft. ‚Ä¢¬ª'‚ñ† - Leucnphiyne, a brazen statueof, i. -



-, a statue of, i. .



‚ñ† Patroa, statue of, i. til.



Pher√¶a, the statue of, i. .



‚ñ†" the Saviour, a grove ef, ii. .



‚Äî^‚Äî Taurica, a statue of, i. .Diczarchia, a city near the Tyrrhene



sea, i. . ii. .Dicon, a victor in the Olympic games,



ii. .



Didas, the Olympic pugilist, ii. .



Didyms, the city, iii. .



Diirrephes, a brazcrl statue of, i. .



Dindymene and Attis, the table of, ex≠plained, iii. .



Dine, the town, ii. $.



Dinocrates, ii. .



Dinolochus, a victor in the Olympicrace, ii. ;.



Dinomenes, the son of Hiero, ii. .



Dinosthenes, a victor in the Olympic



stadium, ii. .Diocles, i. .S.*C:K, :.  j ,



Diogcnia, i. Hz.



Diomed, the statue of, i. s.



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî first instituted Pythian games



in honour of Apollo, i. .‚Ä¢ ‚Ä¢ ', a statue of, iii. . , what is meant by Mincrvadis-



perling the darkness from the eyes off



iii.



Dionysiades, the, i. .Dionysias, the fountain, i. .Dionyficles, the statuary, ii. .Dioaysius, the statuary, ii. .Dionysophanes, iii. .Diophanes, the son of Dixus, ii. $.Diopliantus, the Athenian archon, ii.*.



Diores, the son of Amarynceus, ii. .Dins, the city, iii. .Dioscuri, the, remarkable story of, i..



 , brazen statues of, i. .



, said by the Messenians wbe born in the.r city, i. .



, a grove of, ii. .Dipoenus, the statuary, i. . .



. ii. . .Dirce, the wife,of Lycus, iii. .



‚ñ† , the river, iii. .



Disponteus, the sea of Oenomaus, ii.(.



Divination by oracles, beautiful expla≠nation of, from Jamblichus Do Myf-teriis, iii. .



Dius, ii. .



Dodd, Dr. extract from his eleganttranslation of Calliinachus' hymn toApollo, iii. .



Dodona, an account of the oracle os,iii.*.



Dontas, the statuary, ii. .



Donussa, the city, ii..



Doridas, i. .



Dorienses, the return of the, into Pe≠loponnesus, ij.at.



Dorieus, the son of Anaxandrides,.



Doficus, a victor in the Olympic pan≠cratium, ii. .Dorius, the city, ruins of, '..Doryeleii, exiles so called, i. .Doryclidas, the statuary, ii. .Doryssus, i..



Dotadas, the sen of Isthmius, i. .Draco, the Athenian lawgiver, iii. j¬´Dragons, sacred to √Üsculapius, i. zr;.



Dragons*



 



I N D E Xi



Dragons, why sacred to √Üsculapius,



*+t



Dragon, the meaning os a child beingchanged into one, iii. .



Drepanon, the promontory, iilJJ.



Dromeus, a victor in the Olympic cha.riot-race, it. .



Dromus, a place so called in Sparta, i.) i.



Dropion, the son of Dean, iii. .



Drymea, the city, iii. . .



Dryopes, the, i.  .



Durateus, the horse, the head of, apicture of, iii. .



Doris, a victorious pugilist in the Olym≠pic games, it. .



Ditrius, a brazen horse so called, I. ., the horse, iii. .



Dyme, an Achaian city, il. . .



Dymas, the son of √Ügimius, ii. .. Dysaules, the brother of Celeus, i. .



Dyscinetus, the Athenian archoo, i..



E.



EARTH, an opeaing of, Into whichthe water ran after the deluge ofDeucalion, i. ,



‚Äî>‚Äî, why called a mighty goddess,iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, the summit of the, according toHomer and Plato, ethereal, ii .



Earthquakes, previous signals of, givenby divinity, and what these signalsare, ii. .



Ebony, account of, from a Cyprian bo≠tanist, i. (.



Echeciria, ii.



Echecratides, iii. $.



Echedamia, the city, iii. .



Echembrotua, the piper, iii. .



Echemus, the son of Aeropus, i. .ii. .



Echephron, the son of Hercules, ii. .Echepolis, the son of Alcathous, i. .Echcstratus, the son of Agij, i. .Echetlxus, the hero, i. ft.Echocax, a picture of, iii. .Echus, a porch so called among the



Hermionenfes, i. .Ecdelus, the disciple of Arcelilaus, and



preceptor of Philopoemcn, ii. ,Echinades, the islands, ii. .Ecaion, iii. lo.



Ectea√¶, the, the sin*



Thebes, iii. .Edifice in Athens, an account of the



pictures it contains, i. .Bgyptims, why all the ftatu.es of (heird√¶mons were raisedonsailing vessels,iii. .Eioneus, a picture as, iii. .Elaphus, the river, ii. .Etailus, a picture of, iii. .Elataea, the city, iii. .Elatis, the son of Areas, ii. let.Eleans, the, accused by the Lacede≠monians as various crimes, i. .



, particulars of the anti*quity of, ii. .



‚Äî , partook of the Trojan



war, ii. .



, unwillingly warred on!



the Athenians, ii. I!.



‚Äî‚Ä¢ ‚ñ† <  , opposed the Spartans, IS.



lited with the Mace Jc-



nians, iS.



‚ñ†, assisted Philip, IS.warred on the Macedo.



nians, ib.



, instituted games for boys,



ii. .



Elaatas, the son of Lycaonj ii. ¬ªj.Eiectra, i. .



, the town, i. .‚ñ†i, a picture of, iii. .Electryon, the father of Alcmene, i.



sot.



Elegies and funeral dirges accommo*



dated to the melody of pipes, iii. .Elegy, the word, used by Pausanias aasynonymous with epigram, iii..Elephant, prominences from the mouth



of, horns and not teeth, ii. .Eleus, the son of Eurycyda, reigned



over the Epeans, ii. .'Eleus, king of Elis, ii- .Eleusis, the hero, i. .‚ñ† -, a Becotian city, iii. et.Eleusinian mysteries, the, Pau fasti as



restrained by i dream from divulga.



ing, i. .



‚ñ†, disclosed bf



the latter Platonifts, iii. .Eleuthcr, the son of Apollo, iii. .



‚ñ† , a Pythian victor, iii. .Eleutherion, a river in Mycenar, i. taElit, a statue'of, ii. I jo.Elissoa, the rirar, i, .



I N I E Xa ¬ªJ



Smaution, a victor in the Olympic sta≠dium, it. .Embolos, a place so called in Altii, ii.. -



Emilus, the statuary, ii. .



Emperamus the Spartan, a servant of,by committing adultery with the wifeof a Messenian, causes Ira to be taken,i. .



Enceladus, the giant, ii. .Endius, the statuary, ii. . ,Eudymion, the adytum of, ii. .‚Ä¢ the son of Aethlius, ii.



.



, the fable of, explained, iii.



‚Äû¬´- , . .



Enneacrunos, a fountain in Attica, i.



Ennus, the poet, . .Enope, the city, i. *.Enudus, the son of Anc√¶us, rl. .Enyalius in fetters, an ancient statue of,. >‚Ä¢ ¬ª-



Eoe√¶ the great, verses so called, i. .



. . . iii. .



verses from, iii. ;. .



Elpenor, a picture of, iii. .Elytos, the city, iii. .Epaminondas, a remarkable vision of,



in a dream, i. .



‚ñ† sacrifices to Bacchus andlsinenian Apollo, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî builds MeAcne, i. ,.



‚ñ†  ', particulars of, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî restored Greece to some



degree of vigour, ii. .



‚ñ†¬ª , a statue of, iii. ., the transactionsof, iii.



--



'stain by an Athenian



at Mantinea, iii. .Epebolus, the prophet, i. .Eperastus, the prophet, a victor in the



armed Olympic course, ii.  a.Epeus made a wooden statue of VcnuSj



i. .



‚ñ† jnade the wooden horse, accord≠ing to Homer, i. .



‚ñ†  a picture of, iii. ‚ñ† .Ephebeum, a place so called in Sparta,



j. .Ephesos, ii. .Ephialtes, iii. .Efhori, the Spartan, I aSi,



Ephysc, the daughter of Ocem, ..Epicradius, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Epicrates, i. .Epidauria, i. .



Epidaurian kings, an account of, i.



.



Epidaurians, a theatre of the, i. .



Epidaurus Periphetes, the son of Vul≠can, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî the son of Pelops, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî acityofthcEleuthcrolacones,i..



called Limera, ..



Epidote, the name of a demon venerate!



by the Spartans, i. .Epigonoi, the, warred on Thebes, iii..



Epigram on the tomb of Phytalus* i..



Epimelides, i. .Epimenides, i. . ii. .Epimetheus, a definition of, iii. .Epimidcs,oneof the Curctes, ii. .Epione, a statue of, i. . .Epipyrgidia, a statue of  locate so called,



with three bodies joined in one, i.



.



Epitcles, the sea of √Ü&hynes, remark≠able dream of, i. .



Epitherfes, a victor in the Olympic andPythian garnet, ii. .



Epochuc, the son of Lycurgus, ii. ¬ªo¬ª



Eponymus the Spartan, i. .



Epopeus, war of, against the Thcbans,



i. .



Erasmus, the river, i. }. ..



derives its origiafrom the Stymphalua of Arcadia, i..



Erasos, the sen of Trlphylus, i.i,.



Erato, the nymph, ii. .Erectheus,statue o¬£, i .Erenea, the town, i. .Erefus, a picture of, iii. .Errtria, enllaved through proditioti,



ii. .



Ergatai, gods so called, the statues of,



ii. .



Erginus, a king of the Orahomeniant,and eldest son of Clymenus, iii. ,.



Ergomles, a victor in the Olympic do>lidbos, ii. .



Erichlhosius,



iU in: > s X.



Erichthoniu*, tTie fable os, explained,iit. .



Eridanus, the banks of, produce the



black poplar, ii. .Erieone, the daughter of √Ügisthus, i.



i¬´.



Eriphyle, ii. jr. Jo.



‚ñ† ‚ñ†, the necklace of, iii. leo.‚ñ† , a picture of, iii. .



Erochus, the city, iii. .Eniclides, the Athenian archon, iii,.



Erymanlhus.the river, ii. .. J,.



Eiythca, the daughter of Ceryon, iii.*.



Eryihra, the city, ruins of, iii. .Eryiht√¶i. the, refer their origin toErythrus, the son of Rhadamanthus,



Erythrus. the son of Leucon, ii. .Eryx.i.  +.Eteocles, iii. .



‚Äî the first that sacrificed to the



Graces, iii. in.Eteonicus, ii. qv iii. .Etis, the city i. .Eu√¶chme, the daughter of Hyllui, i.. "'-



Eu√¶phnus, the Spartan,!. .Evagoras, i.  .



~ Zancl√¶us, ii. .



Eualcis, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii.  r.Euamerion, sacrificed to as to a god, i.



.



Evander, the son of Mercury, ii- .Evanoridas. the wrestler, ii. .Euanthes, the pugilist, ii. .Euanthes, the sen of Ocn¬ªpion, ii.-.



Eubius, the statuary, iii. $.Euboea, i. .



Eubntus, a victor in the Olympic race,ii.  ‚Ä¢



Eubulus, the son of Carmanor, i. ,



Eucampidxs, ii. .



Euchenor, i. .



Euchir, the statuary, ii. .



Euchirus, the statuary, ii. ;.



Eucles, a victor in the Olympic Contest



of boxing with men, ii. . .Euclidcs, the statuary, ii..Kudu:, the prophet, iii, .



Euergitadas,  noble fiseffenian, . Jifft‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî migrates to the mountain



Lyc√¶as. i. .Euefperitie, the, a people of Lybia, i.



"- .Euippe, the daughter of Leucon, iii<



.



Euippus, i. .



Eumachus, his account of two large"



skeletons, iii. .Eumeles, i. .



Eumelut, the authorof a history-of Co≠rinth, i. |J.



, verses of, !. . the architect, it. .



the first king of Pame, i?.



.



Eumolpia, a Grecian piece, of poetical



composition, iii. .Eumolpus, statue Of, i. .Eunomus, the son of PYytanrt, i. -Euphaes, the son of Antiochus, i. s** , his speech to the Mcssemaox,



>‚ñ† JS-



‚Äî‚ñ† ,his speech to the Meffeniaa



army, i. .‚ñ† and Theopompm fight with



each other, i. (.Eupheme, the nurse os the Muses, iii.



-



Euphemus, ii. yi,



‚ñ† ‚ñ† , the car of, ii. .



Euphorbus, the sen of A'.chimachur, ii.



Eupborion Chalcidensis, i. . ii!..



Eupolemu, the architect, t. .‚Äî‚Äî , a victor in the Olympic



stadium, ri. .Eupolus, the TheiTallan, ii. uEuripides, sepulchre of, . .‚Äî‚Äî statue of, i. .Euripus, i. lit.Europas, the architect, i. It)"/.Europe, the daughter of Ph≈ìnix-, u.



.



Eurot-s, the son of Myles, i. ;.



‚ñ† , the river, i. . ii. .EuryaluSt ii. .



, a statue of, t. . iii. Ilj.



, a picture -of, iii. .



Eurybatcs, a victor in wrestling in the;Olympic games, ii. . ‚Äî ‚ñ†, a picture of, iii, .



 Euryelev



 



t a \ > E St. 



EUfydei made a hath for the Corin≠thians, I. ..Euryclidea, the orator, i. .Eurycrates, the son of Polydorus, i. .Eurycyde, ii. .



EurydainuS, a statue of, iii. .Eurydice, the daughter of LaceJaimon,i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî-, the wife of Philip, ii. .Euryganea, the daughter of Hyperphas,



iii. .Euryleon, i. .Euryleonida, a statue of, i. .Euryloch'js, a picture of, iii. S‚Ä¢Eurymachus, a picture of, iii. S.Eurynomus, the d√¶mon, a picture of,



iii. .



Eurypon, the son of Soos, through hi*renown, caused the Proclid√¶ to becalled Eurypontidx. i. .



Eurypylus, tiie son of Eu√¶mon, par≠ticulars of ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, the son of Tclephus, i.. iii. w



Eurysthenes, the sen of Ai illodcmus, i.r.



Eurystheus, i. .Eurytion, the centaur, ii. .Eurytium, a desolate place in Mestene,'¬´‚Ä¢ '-



Eury(u, the son of Melaneus, i. .liustathius on Homer, a citation from,



'"‚Ä¢> . ,



'Eutelidas, victor orer boys in theOlympic quinouertium, ii. .



Eutelidas, the statuary, ii.  \.



Euthymenes, a victor in wrestling inthe Olympic games, ii. .



Euthymus, the Olympic victor in box≠ing, ii. .



Eutychides, the statuary, ii. . .



Execettides, a victor in the Pythiancontest with the two-yoked car, iii.lit).



F.



FABLF. S of the ancients) a specimenof th: manner in which they arc tobe understood, iii. , .



fear, a statue of, i. .



Fishes, marine, founj in the greatestabundance in the river Acbelom, i,'S-



Voi.nil



Flaminius, the Ronian general, con≠nects the Achaians and Romans ina warlike league, ii. .



‚ñ† earnestly endeavours to take



Hannibal alive, ii. :.



Flax, tine, within Elei, ii. . >



Fortifications, the, a place so called inSparta, i. .



Fortune, instances of, the mutationsshe causes in cities, ii. .



, beautiful account of, frorilSimplicius, iii.  .



Forum, Spartan, the contents of the,



i. .



Fountain, built by Theagenes, i. .Fountains of Me^aris, i. .



G.



GAALES, a people so called, i. .



Gades, i. . iii. tIOi



Galaiae, the, i. .



Gallus, the Roman senator, separatesmany cities from the Achaic coun≠cil, ii. ;.



Ganyrnedes, of what the image, iii.



.



Garapammon, the Olympic pugilists



ii. .



Garates, the river, ii. .



Gate, sacred, i. ij.



Gate, Teneatlc, i. .



Gathcaias, the river, ii. .



Gauls, the, an account of their irruptiorl



into Greece, i. ‚Äî. iii. 



‚Äî.



 remarkable from very early



periods for acting in defiance of law



and religion, ni. .Gclanor, the son of Sthencla, i. .Genetyllides, the, statues of, i..



, probably the two



Vcnuses, the supermundane and



mundane, iii. .Geranthre, the town, i. .Gereaiis, a city in Srcily, ii. ;Gerenia, i. . .Geres conducted die B≈ìotian colony*



ii. a.Geronthrse, i. . .Geryon, i c. .Gitiadas, the statuary, composed Dori*



fonts, and a hymn to Minerva, i.



. .



C ¬´ Claucaa,



 I N D E .



GUucas* ii. Si.



Glauce, the fountain of, u .



, the Nymph, ii. .



Glaucias, the statuary, ii. iff. .



- , a victor in the Olympic



games, iii. .Ghucon, a victor in the Olympic per≠fect chariot-race, ii. .Glaucus, the son of √Üpvtus, i, .



* ‚Äî, the statuary, U. .



. , the river, ii. .



, the Sputan, ii. .



‚Ä¢ , the son ot' Sisyphus, it. .



, a picture of, iii. .



‚ñ† ‚ñ† ‚ñ† ‚Äî, a dzmon of the sea, iii. . ‚ñ†



. , a victorious pugilitl in the



Olympic games, ii. iit.



‚Äî‚Äî, the Cliian, first discovered the



artof soldering iron, iii .GliiVas, the ruins of, iii. .Glyppia, the (own, i.Gnarho, the pueiliit, ii. .Gnothir, the Theifalian, ii. .Goddesses, the great, Ceres and Pro≠serpine, ii. .Gods, the, called by the ancients agolden chain, on account of theirconnection with each other, and in≠corruptible nature, iii. 'o.‚Äî.‚Äî, proved trom indisputable autho≠rity to have been seen in all my ste-ries, iii. .



, Prodromean, the meani.ig of,



iii. .



‚Äî ‚ñ†, an account of those that werecalled by the Greek;., the twelve,iii. .



Golden age, the meaning os the, iii.



,tfi.



Gonassa, the daughter of Sicyon, ii.



Conippus, i. .Gorgafui, i. .



Gorgiai, the Leon tine, a statue of, ii.



. iii. .. , Plato's account



of, iii. .Gorgophone, the daughter of Perseus,



i. . .Gorgus, the son of Aristomenes, i. .‚Äî‚Äî, a victor in the Olympic quin-



quertium, ii. . .Corlyna, ii. .



Gortynius, an appellation of √Üscula.pius, i. iH.



Gortynius, the river, ii. . ."Cortys, the village, ii. .



, the son of Stymphalus, ii. .



Graces, the, a grove sacred to, i. . , according to Hesiod, the



daughters of Jupiter and Eurynome,



iii. ;.



'-, names of, ib.



, the daughters of Aigle and



the Sun according to Aatimachus, ib.Grais, the son of Echelatus", i. act.Craniarius, brazen statue of, i. .Grecian cities, that opposed Xerxes at



Thermopyl√¶, an enumeration of the,



iii. .



Cteece, misfortunes of, and war againltthe Macedonians, i. ‚Äî., a italue of, ii. .



, the eitreme imbecility of, in



the one hundred and sixtieth Olym≠piad, ii. at .



decks, the, shipwreck of, at Capha.reus, i. too. ¬´



- , such as were formerly



reckoned wife, concealed their wis≠dom in √¶nigmas, ii. .



 , employ more ancient in≠stead of more recent names in poeticalcompositions, ii. .Griffins, i. .



Gtyllu;, the son of Xenophon, ii. ,iii. .



Oyjzcs, the son of Dascylus, i. .Gymnasium, called Ptolemarum, con≠tents of the, i. .



in Elis, ii. J.



Gytheum, i. .



H.



H√ÜMOK√Ü, a place in Arcadia,



ii. ,-.



Hal;artus,the son of Thersander, iii.t¬´.



the city, iii. . ,



Halicarnassus, i. .



Halice, i. .



Jn'ilirrhothius, i. .



Halitsea, the fountain, ii. .



Haliuffa, the island, i. .



Halmus, the son of Sisyphus, iii. u



Halus, a place in Arcadia, ii. .



llama, the fountain, ii. .



Hannibal, ii. .



Hares, white, ii. .



HarraofHi,



i tf i E X. 



armostai, the prefects, Hi. ,arpalus, i. . ii. z [.Harpinnates, the river, ii. ,Harpinne, the ruins of, Ib.Harpiea, i. .



Hearth of the g. ds, called Prodromean,



i. .Hecaerga, i. .Hecaerge, ii. .



Hecat√¶us, the Milesian, i. . .



ii. a.



Hecate, why called Enodlan, iii. .Hecatus, the prophet of the Laced√¶≠monians, i. .* ;, a stratagem of,



i. -



Hector, a picture of, iii. .Hegeiaus, the son of Tvnhenus, i.>-



Megemone, one of the Graces accord≠ing to the Athenians, iii .



Hegefarchus, a victorious pugilist in thoOlympic games, ii. .



Hegesinous the poet, verses of, iii. .



Hegias, the Troezenian poet, i..



Helen, a bath of, i. .



i‚Äî‚Äî, a picture of, iii. .



‚Äî , the rape ot, shewn to be fabu≠lous according to Stcsichurus audPlato, iii. .



Hclene, the desert island, . l¬∞g.



Helenus, a picture of, iii. .



Heli√¶a, a place of judgment amongthe Athenians, i. .



Helice, au Achaian city, ii. . .



'shaken from its foundation by



an earthquake, ii. .



Helicon, mounF, the contents of, iii. .



Helisl'on, the son of Lycaon, ii. ).



- , the city, ii. .



‚Ä¢ -, the river, ii. . .



Helius, tile youngest ton of Perseus, i.



‚ñ† J'S-



Hellankus, i. ;. ,t'o.



~ , the Olympic victor, ii. .



Hel!ar>odicai,or the judges of the Olym≠pic games, ii. .Hellanodicon, a place so called in Elis,



ii. .



Hellas, once a part of Theffaly, i. .Hellebore, two forts of, in Aniicyra,



iii. aio.



Hellcnium, a place in Sparta so called,i> ,



Hclos, a maritime Achaian town, u



‚Äî‚Äîthe rains of, i. .Heniochc, the daughter of Creon, iii..



Hera, the promontory, ii. .Hciaclea, the village, ii. *.Iletacleios, the torrent, iii. .Hei aclid√¶, the, contend for Argos an<tLaced√¶mon, i.



‚ñ† , the return of, i. .



Heiaclides, ii. .



, governor of the Delphi, iii.



.



Heraea, the city, li. .



He- √¶eus, the son of Lvcaon, ib.



Hercules, i. .



 -, particulars of the sacrifice to



him, i- .



'-, the children of, their return,



i. .



‚Äî‚Äî-, a statue and trophy os, i. >



;‚Äî: , an armed statue of, i. .



-, the cause of his warring on



Hippocoon and his Ions, ib.



‚Ä¢ ‚Ä¢ is unjustly treated by Augeas,



ii. .



. warred upon Augeas, ib.



‚ñ† stew the Ions of Actar, ib.



‚Ä¢ took and plundered Elis, ii. .



, one of the Curetes, ii. ,



‚Äî ., a large brazen statue of, in



Olympia, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî-, a gymnasium and stadium of,



iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî-, one of those that are called



the id√¶i Dactyli, iii. . Rinocoloustes, a statue of, iii.



~‚Äî strangling the dragons, tha



meaning of, iii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, the hero, descended from a



god of that name. iii. .



', the son os Alexander, iii. ,



‚ñ†-, a fountain so called, i. .Hercyna, the river, iii. ,.Herm√¶, i. .Hermann, ii. .Hermts Agetor, a statue of, ii. .HcrmesiannX', a victorious wrestler in



the Olympic games, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, a writer of elegies, ii.



. .  . iii. .Hermias, extract from tac MS. Corn-Cat menury



INDEX.



mentary of, on the Phaedru?, iii.



 *¬ª‚ñ† -Hermion, the son of F.urop*, i. .Hermione, the daughter of Menelaus, i.



-



', a



statue of, iii. .Hermione, the city, i. .Hermionenses, their mode of sacrifice,



i. .



Hermogenes, the statuary, i. .Hermolychus, i. .Hermon, the statuary, i S.



‚Äî , the architect, ii. .



Herodes, the architect, i.  ;. iii. .'-, the Athenian, i. . ii.. :.Herodotus, i. ,. . S. . :.



-,. ;. . i:i. I. ICO. .



‚ñ† the Claxonienian, a statue



of, ii. .Heroes, the armour of, according to



Homer, brazen, i. ".Heroes, among men, the character.



istics of, iii. .



.whycalled demigods, iii. .



Hcrophile, the Sibyl, iii. ;.



, Oracle of, ib.



‚Ä¢ , rcmarkal-ic account of,



from the MS. Commentary ofHer-



mias on the Phsedrus, iii. .Hesiod, i . . . U. . ill.



ii. . iii. . ?. .



, a brazen ltituc ot, iii. Co.



, a statue of, iii. .



‚Ä¢ , a catalogue of the works of,



iii. .



, the meaning of an assertion of,in his Catalogue of Women.



.Hesperian regions, the secret meaning



of the, iii. .Hespeiide-B, the; meaning of the goMen



apples of the, ib.Hesti√¶a, the Eubocan city, ii. i¬£.Hetoemccles, a statue of, t. .Hicetas, the son of Ariltocrates, ii.f-



Hiera, the city, iii. .



Hiero, a victor in the Olympic games,



ii. . .Hieroc√¶farea, a Lydian city, ii. Si.Hieronymus, ii. .   Audrius, a victorious



wrestler in the Olympic game's, ii..



Hilot√¶, the, i. . .



Himerxus, the poet, iii. .



Hippagcras, ii. .



Hipparchiii, i. .



Hippafus flies to Samos, i. .



Hippia, the goddess, ii. .



Hippias, the son of Pifistratus, i. .



, the sophist, ii. . iii. .



, the fta'uary, ii. .Hippo, the daughter of Scedasus, iii..



Hippocoon, i. t". .Hippocrates, the son of Ariphion, iii.'-



‚Ä¢ , the physician, iii. .



, the brother of Epicydes,



ii. .



Hippojrene, the fountain, i. .Hipp-da mium, a building in Altisr



ii. .



Hippodamia, ii. . .Hippodrome, the, in Olympia, partiew-



Ursof, ii. ;.‚Äî‚Äî , the name of the forum im



Elis, ii. .



the, of Apollo, iii. .



Hippola, the city, i. .Hippolytus, i. .



, a grove of, i. .



‚ñ†-, according to the Troere*



nians, forms that constellation which



is called (he charioteer, i. .Hippomachus, a victorious' pugilist im



the Olympic games, ii. ).Hippoincdon, foundations of the house



of, i- -Hippomerxs, i. .Hippou, the Elean pugilist, ii. .Ilippcsthencs, a victor in wrestling id



the Olympic games, ii. .Hippotes, the son of Phylas, i. S.Hippothoon, i. T.Hippothoul, the son of Cercyon, ii.



.



Hippotion, ii. .Hiranis, the city, i. S.Holmoncs, the city, iii. .Homer, i. . . . . . lit,



HI. . . ti. . Iig.



. . . . . .



. . :. . , -



. . .  > - ¬ª‚Ä¢ ≠



 



INDEX. H



t. ?. c. ?. *. . . ,. :. . . . -



. tc... . . .



, . , . ;. .



ill. . -. . - . <‚Äî.io. ‚Äî. . . .



‚Ä¢- '- ". ¬ª. '. .



. .llom:r never saw an elephant, i. .¬´ extract from his hymn to



Ccrei, i. .* what he alludes to by a people



unacquainted with the fta, iii. c., meaning of the inf'mal rivers



mentioned hy him, iii. z\z. , the meaning of a remarkable



pallage of, iii. s.



, author of the poem called the



Small Iliad, iii. .



, the blindness of, shewn to be



fabulous, and the meaning of it ex≠plained, iii. .‚Äî‚Äî, that the Iliad and Odyssey of,



are to be considered as divine fables,



iii. .



, two lines of, in the Iliad, not



understood by any of his translators



and modern commentator t iii. '.‚Äî , a word of, in the filth Iliad,



how uadeistood by the Eleanij iii.



¬∞-



 a verse of, i. . . . tj. si . ii. . . iii. . iOO.. ;.



‚Äî‚Äî, verses of,i. ....



- '*  =-   ''‚Ä¢ -. -. . ' . ...I. . iii. , .  j. .. . . no. . c, .. -. ,  ,. .. ;. ~. , . . M. tei, ;;.



‚ñ† , from lus hymn ;o



Ceres, i.  ..



Horse, a brazen one in Olympia, en≠dued with the power of railing inliving horses the hinpomanes, ii. .



House, among the Phliasians, culledprophetic, i. 



Human lite, the diistrent a?cs of, onthe earth, correspond to the order of-the universe, iii .



Humble men, according to Aristotle,flatterers, iii. ..



Hyacinthia, i. . J.



Hyamia, i. .



Hyampolis, the city, iii. . .Hyanten, the, iii. .Hyanthidas, i. J. ,Hybiilides, the Athenian arclion, ii.,



Hydra's heads, the secret meaning of



the. iii. .Hydrea, th- iiland, i. .Hyeitus, the city iii. . ?-Hysia, or Health, why called the



daughter and wife of √Ülcu:apius,



iii .



Hylx, a place belonging to the Mag.



nets:, iii. .Hyl'us, the son os the Earth, i. . , a victorious w.eftlet in the



Olympic games, ii. . the son of Hercules, slain by



Echcmus, ii. .Hylycus, the river, i. .Hypanis, the river, i .Hypapa, a l.ydian city, ii. .Hvpatodorui, the statuary, ii.  . iii.



.



Hypenas Pir√¶us, v/'ctor in the twofoldcotjrfe in the Olympic games', ii. ..



Hyperbius, i. l.



Hyperboreans, a people beyond theThracian*, mentioned by Callima-chus in his hymn to Delos, iii. .



Hjperca, the city, i. .



Hyperenor, the Spartan, iii. .



Hypercrer, a king of the Troezeniant,i. .



Hyperioo, i. .



Hypcrippe, ii. .



Hypermnestra, the daughter of Danaus,



,. u.



‚Äî^‚Äî‚Äî , a statue of, iii. .



Hyperochus, aCum√¶an, iii. .



Hypertelcatoii, a place so called in Spar≠ta, i. .



Hypfos, a place so called in Sparta,i. .



Hypsus, the city, ii. .



Ilyrieus, iii. .



Hyrmma, the daughter of Epeus, ii. .



, a ci'y in EIca, ii. .Hyrnethium, i. .Hyrnetho, ib.Hymethus, i. .Hyfgina, the plants, iii. .Hysia, the city, ruins of, ii^-.Hyfmon, a victor in the Olympic cjuin-quertium, ii. .



C c  Iscchus',



 



 INDEX.



r.



IACCHUS, a statue of, holding a torch,i. .



Ialmenus, the son os Mars, iii,  ‚ñ†'.Jambli<husDe Mystcriii, beautiful ex≠tract trom, iii. ^.  t.lambraius, the river, li. .Jamidic, the prophets, it. .laniscus, i. -lafeus a picture of, iii. .lasis the Nymph, ii. .laiius, one of the Curetes, ii. . .



Jason, i. .. ii. .asus, i. .Ibycus, i. :.



l;at ius. the lather of Penelope, i. .'-



Jcarus Hyperesicnsi;, i. .



Icafius, a victorious wrestler in theOlympic g-imes, ii. .



lecus, a victor in the Olympic <]¬´in-qu'rtum, ii. iij.



Ichth oph igi, i. ..



Ictinj.* the a ehitect, ii :.



Idi the Nymph, ii. .



-‚Äî ‚Äî: , the mother of the



Sibyl Heroe*hile; iii, .



Id√¶us- a victor in the Otympic sta≠dium., ii. .



Idas, the eldest son of Aphareus. i. .



‚Äî, one of the Curetes, ii .



Iloir.eneus, ii. ‚ñ† .



. the town, i.  



J.iad. the small, the author of the, i. '‚Ä¢



. iii. .



Jllyr.ans, stratagem nf the, towaidstheMothon√¶aus i. .



Imeros, the meaning of the word ac≠cording to Piato, iii. S.



Immaradus. i. lit.



Inachus an Argiye river, i. . ii.".



Incantation, curious account cf from, a very rare Greek MS. of Pselltis,iii. U.



Indus and the Mile breed crocodiles, i.*-



I no. oracle of, i. ;‚Äî, the symbolical signification of, iii.*-



J. opus, the river, i. .



 yens, a Sicilian city, ii. .



}->> }‚Ä¢ ?¬∞-



Iolaus, the son of the brother of Her≠cules, ii. .



, the son of Iphicles, ii. .



‚Äî, the Gymnasium of, lit. .



Ion, the son of Erectheus, ii. .



, the son of Gargettus, ii.  s.



‚Äî, the tragic poet, ii. .



Iones, the affairs of, ruined through



prodition, ii. ?.Ionian! aud Achaiani, the war between,



ii. .



. , the, advent of into Attica, ii..



, expelled by the Achaianst



ii. .



lophon, the Gnoflian, i. IOT.Joppa. a city of the Hebrews, i. T.Jordan, the river, ii. .lphiclus, the father of Protesilaus, i.-



Iphicrates, the son of Timotheus, iii.



Iphidamas, the son of Antenor, i. ,



ii. .



Iphimedea, a picture of, iii. .



lphii.oc, i. >|.



Iphis, the son of Alector, i. .



Iphitus establistied the games in Olym≠pic, ii. .



Iphodamion, a building so called in)Altis, ii. i)'.



Ira taken by the Laced√¶monians, i.



*-lsagoras. i. 



Ifchys. the son of Elatus, i. . ii.



.. ,lsis, an advtum sacred to, iii. *.‚Äî , the Paneguris of, particulars as,



ii.



‚Äî--, the tears of. said to cause the Nileto irrigate the fields, iii. iqy.



, the meaning of this assertion, iii.



.



Isis, the same with Minerva, iii. .ll'men us. the ton of Apollo, iii. .llocrates, tiatue of. i. .Isthmius the son of Glaucus, i. ^Isthmus. Corinthian, topography of, i. .



Tsthmus, the in Troezenia, i.  ;.Istaris, the daughter of Tirefias, iii. .llhzmcnes, a picture of, iii. .Itonus, ii. .



 , the son of Amphictyon, iii. .



 



INDEX. 



leys, i. .



Juno, the nurses of, i.l(.Juno, Oegoplugus, i. --Juno, the temple of, among the Eleans,



the particulars of, ii. ‚Äî.



, a grove of. ii. :.



, a table of, iii. .



‚Äî, called Numpheuomene by the



Plat√¶enses, ib.‚Äî‚Äî, called Tcleia by the Plat√¶enses,



ib.



‚Äî, why represented holding in oneof h:r hands a pomegranate, iii. :<) >.



Jupiter, remarkable statue of, i. .



, a wooden ltatue of, with three



eyes, i. .



, an ancient brazen statue of,



ib.



 , many statues of, ii. ‚Äî



-



, Apesantius, . .



. ‚ñ† Apomyius, ii. .



. Eleutherius, sta.ue of, i. .



. Euanemus, the meaning of,



Jupiter, why represented with three



eyes, .iii- .



, Neptune, and Pluto, an ac-



cau.t of, from Prxlus. iii. .Jup.ters, the three, mentioned by Pau-



sanias, an explanation of, ib,



K.



KING, the, among the LaceJ√¶mo-



olans how ; :,. .!, i. .Knowledge, the whale of, comprehend-, cd in fclf-knowlea>e, iii. .



iii. .



Hymcthian, statue of, i. .



lthomaias, a statue of, i. .



Laphystius. a grove of, iii. ".



Lyc√¶an, remarkable account



of a grove of, ii b.. the Machinator, the statue of,



i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Meilichius, shewn to be thefame with the d√¶mon in the Orphichymns, hi. .



, the statue of, i.



.'-



L.



LABAX, the pugilist, ii. .LatxUcufi the son of Polydore, iii.  r.kaboias, the son os Echcstratu,, i--.



Laced√¶mon gave names to the Laconicregion and inhabitants, i .



‚Äî ‚ñ†, the ancestor of Patrcus,



ii. .



Lac?dSemonun kings, an account of the



most nn' ient, i. , .Lacedarmo.ii-..is, the, collect an army



against 'h? Th-Hans. i. . ‚Ä¢ , march to battle,



with the melody of pipes, the lyre



and the harp i. . the manner In



Moiragetesj a statue of, ii.



Orkios, a statue of, ii. .Pancilenian, i. .



P:-rnethLn, i. .



Phyxius, iii. '.



why called and iii.



‚ñ† ‚Äî why represented with a scep≠tre, iii z



‚Äî ‚Äî‚ñ†., why called Po'ieus, iii. ,



- terrestrial, statue os, i. . Most high- statue of, ib.



‚ñ† evinc d his approbation of the



art ot Phidias, ii. \\.



m ‚ñ† ¬´‚ñ†‚ñ†*¬ª, why so many nations haveasserted that he was born and edu≠cated among them, iii. .



which they commenced hostilities



against the Messcnians. i. "‚Äî¬∞¬´



, . ¬ª , put to Eight by



the Mc-senians. i. . lead an army



against ithorne, i. -: ‚Äî. particulars of the



batrle between then and the Mes¬´



senians, i. ;, . , dlC conduct of,



towards the MeflTcnians, i. . subvert Ithorne,



Achahns,



-, vanquished by theattack Megalo≠



polis, ti.  i j.Lachares, i. ^.Lacida, the town, i. .Lacius, the hero, grove of, ib.Lacrates, the architects ii. .Q c  Ucratai*



, in: E X.



Lacrates, the commander of the √Üto-



liansf iii. .Ladas. the statue of, i. S.



‚ñ† , the stauium, ii. S.



Lade, the island, i. .



Ladocus, the son ol Echemus, ii. .



Ladon, the river, ii. . . D.



C-



L√¶as, the architect, i. .



? , the son of Cypselus, ii. a.



Laias, the sou of Oxyius, ii. q.



Laida*. a victor in the Pythian pan≠cratium iii.  t.



Laius, the son of Labdacus, iii. it.



Lalichmion. a place lo called in theElean Gymnasium, ii. .



Lamedon, transactions of, and of othersthat reigned in Sicyon, i. .



Lamia, i. ..



Lampu, victor in the Olympic quln-



quertium, ii.Lamps- ever-bfirning, a large account



ot, iii. ‚Äî Lampus, the son of Piolaus, ii. c. .



‚Ä¢ > a statue of, ii. .



Lamus, the river,.iii. ."Lancea, the fountain, i. -Laodumas, iii .



l.a the daughter of Agapenor,



ii. .



laomedon, a picture of, iii. ).Laoncnie, the mother of An.phitryon,ii. .



Laphais Phliasius, the statuary, i.



. ii  ..Lapha;, the Argive, a trrphy of, i.



Laphrius, the brother of Ostalius, li.‚Ä¢ t".



Lapiih√¶ the, ii. .Lapith√¶ m in Taygetus, i. .Larilia, the tower, i. C.Lar.ffus. the  ivet, ii. . .Laiyn.na, the daughter ot Cynus, iii.



i- . , ... , the city. . .



Las, a city of the Eleutherolacor.es, i.



' ‚Ä¢ *:Laius, ii.  -



Laltratidas, a viclqi jn the Olympic



vret'lii.g ii.  o.Latona adrnirabie account of, from



tht MSb Scbol. of Piocius on the



Cratylus iii .Laughter, which conceals some noxious



design, called by Homer, Sardonian,



iii. .Laurium, i. x.Le√¶na, the harlot, i. .Learchus ot Rhcgium, the stattury> i.



.



Lebadea, the city, iii. .Lcbades, iii. .Lebena, a Cretan city, i. .Leches, i. .



Ledon, a Phocic city, iii. . ic.



.{.eilus, i:i. .l.eleges, the. ii. .Lekx . .  .



, thefiist Laconian kintr, i. ?.



I.eochares, the statuary, i. . ii. .Leocydcs, ii. , .Leogorus, the son of Proclcs, ii. .Leon, the ton of Euiycrates, i. .. , a victor in the Olympic game*,



ii .



Iconidxum, the building, ii..



l.cunidas, i. .



 opposes Xerxes at Thermo.



pylx, t. a .-. is compelled to abdicate ll¬´



kingdom, i. .ti ‚Äî, a victor in the Olympic race,



ii. c. .Ltontifcus, a victor in the Olympic



games, ii . .Ltonlomenes, the son of Tisamenu's,



>i .



Leosthcncs and his children, a pictureof, i. .



 chosen general os the forces



agaii.st the Macedonians, i. yt.



Lent; Chides, king ot the Spartans, al≠ways victorious, i. .



Lcpreate, the, i.  .



-‚ñ† , , what they relate, ii. .



Leprtos, a town of the Means, ii. ,



leprcus. the son of Pcrgeu*



Lcrna, the fountain, i. .



Lcn.√¶an mysteries, said to have beeainstituted b> Philammon, i. ;.



Lcsclie, a building in Pclphos, iii. .



Lescheua  yrrbseus, the poei, iii. ^,



'S- -Leila the village, i. .Lethe, the water of. iii. .Letiini, a town in Elis, ii. .Leucasia, the river, i. ,Leucippidesj the, i. .



Leucippus,



 



INDEX.



Leucipous, the soa os Perierei, i.  j.



, the soa of Oenomaus, ii.



V, :.



iii. .



Leuconia, the fountain, ii. .



Lcuctra, i.  iij. .



Leucyaniu, the river, ii. .



Libethrius, the fountain, iii .



Lition, the architect, ii. .



Libya alone produces terrestrial croco≠diles, i. .



Libyc, the daughter of Epaphus, i..



Licetus, iii. ;.



Liohas, his interpretation of an ora≠cle, L .



Lil√¶a, the city, iii. .



‚Äî, ,one of the Naiades, and thedaughter of Cephislus, iii. .



Limera, i.  '.



Limon, the son of Tegeates, ii..Linus, the poet, ii. }. V



‚Ä¢ ‚ñ† ‚Ä¢' , the Ion of Urania,



iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, called Oitolinos, iii. .



 , a song so called by the Greeks,



and which was denominated by theEgyptians, Maneroon, iii. .



Lipanri, the, a colony of Guidians,iii. .



Locri Hypocnemidti, the, iii. .Locrus, the Itatuary, i. .Locusts, i. .Lophis. tit* river, iii. .L us, the river, i. .Love venerated by the Thespians be≠yond all the ga,.i, iii. .Loii, >‚Ä¢ -



Luuan, extract from the Cataplus of,iii. .



Lucma, the daughter of Juno, accord≠ing to the Cretans, i. . ‚Äî‚Ä¢, calied Eulmou by Olen, ii.



:.



¬´‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, the mother of Love, according



to the poet Olen, iii. .Ltipias, an Italian city, between Brun-



dulium ni J Hydius, ii. .'Lutroplioros, the name ot the priestess



of Venus, i. .Lycaon. the son ol Pelasgus, particulars



of, ii. :.Lycas instituted a chariot race, ii. .Ljcaus, the mountain, ii. .



Lyceas, what he asserts in his vejjes,



i. S.



, the historian, i. lot.



Lyceatx, the city, ii. .



Lycinus a victor in the Olympic



horse-race, ii- . .Lyciuj, the statuary, the ion of Myron,



ii. .



Lycomcdes, the son of Apollo, by Par-thenope, ii. .



‚Äî, the son of Creoa, a pic≠ture of, iii. .



Lvcomida, i. .



Lycorea, the city, iii. .



Lycormas, a victor in the Pythian coil-test with the vaulting colt, iii. t.



Lycortas, the Megalopolitan, ii. ..



Lycoras, the son of Apollo, iii. ,Lycosura, an Arcadian city, the firti



that the sun behold, ii. .Lycurgus, i. .



, the statue of, i. .



‚ñ†' changed the custom ofsacrificing a man by lot, to th¬ªscourging of young men with whips,i. . ii. .



the son of Aleus, ii. .



Lycuiia. a place in Arcadia, ii. .'



Lycus. the son of Pandiun, i. . :a.



-‚ñ† gave ora≠



cles, . .



Lycus, a victor with the vaulting horliain the Olympic games, ii. .



, a king of Thebes, iii. .



. , the prophet, iii .



Lydiadas, a commander of the Mega≠lopolitan*. ii. .



, king of the Mcgalopolitans,



ii. .



Lydians, Persic, iii. .



l.ygdamis. a victor in the pancratiumin the Olympic games, ii. .



Lymat the river, ii. .



Lynceus, i . . .



, a sta'ue of, iii. .



I.vtcea, i. .



Lyrcus, a statue of, on a column, ],



.



Lysand transactions of, i. .



-,' said to hive seen Ammon ina dream, i. -,.



, a statue os, ii. .



particulars of, iii



.



‚ÄîLy si J ice.



 INDEX.



Xystdice, the daughter of Ptlops, ii.



S.



Lysimachus thrown into a den with a



lion, i. .



-¬ª ~-t particulars of, i. ‚Äî.



Lysippc, the wife ot Prolaus, ii. c.X.ysippus, the liatuary, i. , .



ii. , . , . . . iii. (.



.



 , a victorious wrestler in the



Olympic games, ii. tjt.Lyfius, a statue so called, i. .I.yson, the painter, i .Lyfus, the statuary, ii. .



M.



MAC A RE US, the son of √Üolus,. iii. .



‚ñ† Lycaon,



ii..Macaria, the city, ii. .



-, the fountain, i. .



Machserion. ii .Machauidas me tyrant, i..Ma- trJtr, the river, i. . ii. .



S.



M√¶nalus, the city, ii. .Mara, a part of the plain Argot, ii.¬ª.



, the daughter of Atlas, ii. .



i , a picture of, iii. .



Mxr√¶, the town, ii .



Wzsis, the architect, i. .



Magic of the ancients founded on atheory no less sublime, than rationaland true, iii. a.



Magician, an account of a, among theLvdians, ii. .



Magnefii, the, i. .



Magnetidx, the gates, ii. .



Mi!., iii. .



Mallus, the river, ii. -.



Maloetas, the river, it. .



Maltho, an inclofute in the EleanGymnasium, ii. .



Man, the dream of a shadow accord≠ing to Pindar, iii. .



Manticlus, i.  . .. #



Maixi'.ca. the city, ..



Man'incnscs, particulars of the en-gigement of ihc against the Lace≠demonians, ii. .



r  the wars of the, ii. ,



Manto, the daughter of Tiresiat, the



feat of, iii. .



Maratha, a place in Arcadia, ii. .



Marathon, the town, i. .



Mardor.ius, the son  Gobrias, a sta≠tue of, i. . iii. 



Marion, a victor in the Olympic pan≠cratium, and in wrestling, ii. ..



Marios, the town, i.  .



Market-plate of the Athenians, con≠tent! of the, i. .



Marpetsa, the wife of Mclcagtr, t.



Marpeslus, the city, Hi. ..Mars Enyalian, . .



-, the meaning of, iii.



.



Gunaikothoias, a statue of, it.







Therita, a statue of. i. .



Marfyas, the pipes of, i. .



‚Äî , a picture of, iii. .



Martiora, a wild beast so called by the



Indians, iii. .Mafes, an Argive city, i. .Mauri, i. ^.Mausolus, ii.agttMeuta, ii.  t.Medeon, the city, iii. ic.Medcfkaste, a picture of, iii. ;.Medon, the son of Codrus, ii. .Mcdontidae, the, i. .Medus, i. .



Medusa, golden head of, i. .



‚ñ† , particulars of, i. .



, a picture of, iii. .



Mecacles, the architect, ii. .Mcgalophanes, the disciple of Arce-



silaus, and preceptor of Philopoetncn,



ii. .Megalopolis, ii. .-r‚Äî , when first inhabited, ii.



>-



Mcgapenthes, the son of Proetus, i.



.



, the son of Menelaus, j.



.



Megara the wife of Hercules, a picture



ot. iii. ' ‚ñ†Megareus. the son of Neptune, i. lit';.Me?es, a picture of, iii. .Meilichos, the river, ii. .M^l√¶nx, the, ii.  .



, the city, ii. .



Mcl√¶ruus, the son of Lcyaon, ii.



?'-



 



I N I! E X. J



.fcfchmpos, trie son os Amythaon, i.



. ii. /. .M'Ijiii|(is and Bias, the race of, i.



 t^cMe! in, the son of Antasus, i. .



‚Äî‚ñ† , the son of Neptune, ii. .



‚Äî-, the river, iii. ¬£.



Wclane, the daughter of Cephissus,



iii .



Melaneus, i. , >Melangea, a place in Arcadia, ii. Metanion, ii. .



Melanippus, a beautiful Ionian, hadconnection with Com√¶tho a priest≠ess of Diana, in the temple of thegoddess, isi. Z.



‚Äî , the son of Mars and Tri-



tia, ii. Sit.



Melanopus, the Cum√¶an poet, ii. .



Melamhus, the son of Andropompus,i. .



Melas, the son of AntatTus, ii. ,



Mclca, the promontory, i. .



Melcaeer, i. It''-



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, a picture of, iii. .



Meles, the river, ii. ¬ªo.



Meliast√¶, the. ii.. ¬ªj.



Melicerte, iii. .



Melindes, gates lo called, i. '.



Mcmblaurus, i. .



Memnon. a picture of, iii. .



Memnenides, the birds, ib.



Men, why sometimes demanded as asacrifice by maclcs, iii. .



Men√¶ihrr.us, the statuary, ii. .



Menakas, a victor in the Olympicquii.nuertium, ii. r?o.



Menah'iias, inferior it) perfidy to Cal-licrates, ii. .



. laites a war between the



Achaianj and Laced√¶monians, it.



.



Menander, the son of Diopithes, se≠pulchre of, i. c,, v.



Mend√¶us, the statuary, ii. .



Meneiaus, ii. .



, a picture of, iii. .



Meneptolerr.us, a victorious boy in theOlympic race, ii. .



Mcnestratus, iii. .



Menigas. a poem so called, iii. .



Menodotus. the statuary, iii. .



Mcnophanes, ..



Menfaa, ii. .



Mercury, gymnasium of, i



Mercury Diolius, a statue of, ii. %



‚ñ† lorensis, a statue of, i. .



. why called Forenfis,‚Äîwhy



said to he the son of Maia. Theguardian of gymnastics, music, anddisciplines, iii. . y'.



; judicial, i. .



, a statue of, ii. .



  ‚ñ† , , dedi≠



cated by Pindar, iii. .



. Polygius, a statue of, i. :an.



‚ñ† Pronaoi, a statue of, iii. ,



Propylarus, i. -..



, why the statues of, were of



a square sigure, iii. .



, why a statue of, wit an



erect penis on a basis, iii. .‚Äî‚Äî., why represented with a ram



by his side, iii. ?.Meroe, the city, i .Mefatcus, a statue of Baccfius so called,



ii. .Mesta, the city, i. .Me'.fapios, the fountain, iii. .Melfatis, the city, ii. ut..Meffeis, the fountain, i. .Meflene, the daughter of Triopas, i. ?,‚ñ†', situated under Ithome, i. ., the manner in which it waataken, i. .Meslenians, cause of their quarrelling



with the Laced√¶monians, i. . b-, the, affairs of, in a cala≠mitous condition, ..‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî and Laced√¶monians waron each oifier in the sifth year ofthe reign of Aristodemus. "‚Ä¢Parti≠culars or this war, i. H‚Äî. , revolt from the Lace≠d√¶monians, i. . ‚Äî‚Ä¢, sight against the Lace≠d√¶monians at Dera, i. ,



‚ñ† and Laced√¶monians, par≠ticulars of an engagement betweenthem, near the monumentof Carpus,.-.



the. vanquished by the \,z*



ced√¶msmuns, i.



‚ñ† , particulars of tn en≠gagement between them And theAc*rnancs, i. .



'driven by she Laced*-



moniap; /rom Naufactus. i. .



MeiTeniam,



 INDEX.



Mefienians, the, eiiled from Pelopon≠nesus for nearly three hundred yean,i. .



, forum of the, and itscontents, i. .



, invited by the Thcbans



to return to Peloponnesus, i. .



', warlike stratagem of,



i. J..



Mesl'enic war, particulars of the, i.



?‚Äî ¬∞V



Mttcllus, the Roman general, trans≠actions of, ii. , S.



‚Äî wars



‚Ä¢n Anuifcus, ii. aot.



‚ñ† invites the Achaians to makea league with the Romans, ii. ).



Mcthana. the town, i. JJ.



Weih p-is the Athenian, the author of



mysteries, i. .Methydrium, the city, ii. . .Me-ioche, a picture of, iii. .Micon, the painter, i. . . ii. .



.



‚Äî‚Äî the statuary ii. .



the orator, i. .



Midea the city, i.  .



‚ñ† ‚ñ†  ',- destroyed by an earth≠quake, ii. .



Midias, iii. rj.~



Milesians, the, particulars of the ori≠gin of, iii. .



Milctu the commander of the Cretanfleet, ib.



Mita, the wre stler, particulars of, ii. .



Miltiades, the Athenian archon, i.$. ii. ..



, the fiist that benefited



Greece in common, ii. .



Mimnermuj, the poet, iii. .



Minerva, the daughter of Vulcan andthe lake Tritonis, i .



. statue of, that fell from hea≠



ven, . $.



 . , golden lamp of, it.



. , the wall of, ii. .



. Pania, thcsta'ueof, i. .



. Parese, a statue of, i. .



-  called Polias and .Stl.cnias by



the Troexenians, i. .



‚Äî Pronaoi, a statue of, iii. .



‚ñ† Sophronister. iii. .



-‚Äî called Siga in the Ph≈ìnician,and Sais in the Egyptian tongue,iii. .



Minerva Zostori*, iii. . . ‚Ä¢



, a definition of the nitnre of,



iii. .



‚ñ† riving from the head of Jupiter,



the meaning of, iii. .



, why called Ergane., f<sV



, the meaning ol the spear and



shield of, ib.‚Äî , why called Phosper, the Sa≠viour, Callicrgos, a virgin, Aigto-chos. philosophic, philopolemic,Vic≠tory, and Health, iii. , .



remarkable addition to the



celebrated inscription on the statue



os, in an Egyptian temple, from



Proclus, iii. -‚ñ† , why Phidias placed a cock



on her helmet, iii.  o.Minoa, the piomontory, i. .Minos, i. . .‚Äî and RhaJamantbus, intellectual



heroes, iii. at.Minotaur, the fable of the, explained,



iii. .



Minyas, the son os Chryses, iii. ., the treasury of, iii. .



, the poe verses from, iii.



. .



Mirror, a remarkable account of one



in Arcadia, ii. .Mithridates, iii. .Mnaieas, the,Cyrenean, ii. III.



‚Äî, the racer, ii. .



Mnafinous, i. J .



Mnemosyne, the water of. sjt. .



Mnesibulus, a victor in the Olympic



tVadium, iii. .Mnefiniachus statue of. i. IC.Mnestheus, the son of Peteus, i. .Nloliooe, the wite of Actor, ii. .‚ñ† , the im≠



precations of, ib.Moloiii, the, an ambusli of, detected-



by the braving of an ass, iii. .Molossus, the river- ii. .Molpadia, sepulchre of, i. .Molpia, ti c daughter of Scedasus, iii.‚ñ†-.



Molpion, a victor in the Olympicgames, ii. .



Muluris, the lock, sacred to I.eucc-thca and Paltemon, i. r



Monument*, heroic, of Pirithoui, The≠seus, Oedipus, and AdraAus, i. .



Moon,



 



I N IT Z ?. ?r



Moon? the, why said to be drawn by



two bulls, iii. .‚Ä¢ ., why represented drawn by



a mule, iii .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî-, why represented with



horns on her head, iii. .Mopsus, the son of Ampyx, ii. .



, the son of Rhacius, ii.  r.



Mother of the Godi, a statue of, of



Parian stone, i. fij-Mothon, the rock, i. .Mothonc, the harlot, ib.‚Ä¢ , the city, given by the I.ace-



dzmonians to the Nauphenses, i.



.



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, during the Trojan war called



Pcdafus, i. .Mountain Alciium, ii. .



Ama, i. .



Ar.chefmus, i. .



Anchilia, ii .



‚ñ† Apefas, i. .



‚ñ† Arachn√¶us, i. .



. Attemilium, i. .



‚ñ† Atlas, i. .



‚Äî Boreum, ii. .



‚ñ† Cercyius, iii. .



- Chaon, i. .



‚Ä¢ C'ithxron, iii. .



‚ñ† Chclydorea, ii. y+.



Cnacadius, i.  *



‚Äî Cnacaius, ii..



‚Äî Coccvgius, i. .



‚ñ† Corycus, iii. J.



Cotylion, ii. .



Crathis, ii. . s.



‚Äî ‚Äî Crefius, ii. .



-‚Äî w Cronius, ii. .



‚Äî ‚Äî Cyllcnc, ii. .



‚ñ† abounds with white



black.bir.l-i. ii. .



‚ñ† ‚ñ† Cynortium, i. .‚Ä¢ - ‚Äî Elaion, ii. .



‚ñ† Euboea, i. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Eva, i. .



¬ª ‚Äî Gerania, i. lit.



Geronteum, ii. . .



Helicon, the most fertile of



all the mountains in Greece, iii. .



‚ñ† - Hymettus, i. .



- -‚Äî Ida, ii. .‚Äî ‚Äî Ilius, i. .



‚ñ† Ithome, i. . a.Mountains, lunar, the, of an immense



he.'ghtj according to Pwltmy, iii. ,



Mountain of Panellenian Jupiter, i.irr



VLampea, ii. .



‚Äî Laphystion, iii. .



‚ñ† ‚ñ† ‚ñ† Lapirha, ii. .



‚Äî-‚Äî‚Äî Larysium, ...‚Äî‚Äî-‚Äî Latmus, ii. x.



Libcthiius, iii. .



Lycone, i. .



. Macria, ii. .



Mxnalius, ii. .



Mycale, ii. .



, the Nomii, ii. .



Orexis, ii. .



‚Äî OAracina, ii. .



. Pan, i. .



Parnes, i. .



Parnon, i. .



‚Äî Panhenius, ii. ^$.



Pentelicus, i. .



Ph.ibnthum, ii. .



‚Äî Pholoe, ii. .



‚Äî. Pion, ii. .



Pontinus, i. .



Ptous. iii. .



‚Äî Ruportlimus, i. .



‚Äî. Saturnian, ii. .



‚Äî Saurus, ii. .



.‚Äî Sciathis, ii. .



Sepia, ii. .



, the Summit, ii. .



 ‚ñ† ‚Äî Supreme, iii. .



‚Äî Thaumaftos, ii. .



. Tilphufliut, iii. .



Titthion, i. .



‚Äî.‚Äî.‚Äî Trachys, ii. ;.



Typaeus, ii. .



-, called Various, i. ,



Mountains, Aroania, ii. .



, the Ccraunii, ii. .



Mumroius, the Roman general, ii. .‚ñ† dedicated a braacn statue of



Jupiter in Olympia, ii. .



leads an army against the



Achaians, ii. .



routs the whole army of the



Achaians, ii. .



throws down the walls of



the cities that warred on the Ro≠mans‚Äîputs an end to their demo≠cratic government‚Äîestablishes in itsft;ad oligarchies‚Äîand lays a tri≠bute on all Greece, ii. .Mufaus, i. .



 composed a hymn to Ceres



for the Lycomedse, i. - ¬´>‚Ä¢ '¬´'MusietUi



j<* i ¬ªf  E X.



Musanus, the son of Antiophemus, iii..



, the prophet, iii. S.Muses, only three, according to the



sons of Aloe us, iii, . <Mufus, an account os the, from the



MSS. Schol. of Proclus on the Cra-



tylus, iii. .



* , the statuary, ii. .



Mycalcffns, :he city j ruins of, iii. .Myccna: destroyed by the Ai gives



through envy, i. .



‚Ä¢* , ruins of, i. .



Mycene, the daug?iter of Inachss, i.



Myiagrus, the hero ii. .Slylao.i, the river, ii. . .Myles, the son of Lelex, i. .  >.



'' ‚ñ† , the hrst that



invented a hand-mill, i. aMyndus, i. .Myoncs, the, ii. .Myoma, the city, iii. Ire.Myron Prienenlis celebrated the Mef-fenre war in prose, i. .



‚Ä¢‚Äî r wrote heroic verses



and elegies, iii. . , the statuary, i. . . ii. .



;., .. iii. b.Myropolis, a porch in Arcadia, ii. .Myrtilus, the charioteer of Oenomaus,



a statue of, ii. .* , the son of Mercury, parti≠culars of, ii. i.Wyrtotffa, ii. .Myrtoort, the lea, ii. .Mys, the carver, i. .Myl'aeum, the, ii. .Mylius, . .Myiu., i. .IVlyus, the city, ii. .



N.



KABIS, the Spartan king, i. . ii.. -



Naia, the lountain, i. .



Naoclus, ii. .



Naphilus, the river, ii. .



Narraiu, the son of Physcoa, by Bac≠chus, ii. .



.Narcissus, a remarkable story of, iii. .



‚Äî-, trut fable of, explained, iii.J¬ª.



Narcydai, the wrestler, ii. iJwvNafamones, i. S.



Naucydes, the statuary, i. . *



ii. .



Naupactia, verses se called, i. .



‚ñ†‚Äî, whnmcomposed by, *.Naupactus, i..



Naupiia, i. .



Nauplius, the son of Neptune and Amy-



mone, i. .Naus, the great grandson of Eumolpus,



ii. .Natificaa, ii. .Kaxos, in Sicily, ii. tzt.Nerra, the daughter of Pcrsus, ii.



Neda, the Nymph, ii. s. *.



‚Äî‚Äî, the river, .^.. ii. !?-



Nelaidss, a victor in the dympic



games, ii. .Neleus, the son of Cre:heus, and king



of Pylus, i. . ;. i i. &$‚Ä¢Neme*, the daughter of Asnpus, ii. .Nemea, the village, i. .Nemean liun, the cave ot, ib.‚Ä¢ , the meaning of the, iii.



.



Nemesis, why called the angel of Jus≠tice, iii. .



NeocleS, the Theban, iii. .



Neolaidas, the pugilist, ii. ¬´.



Neon, the city, iii . icS.



Neoptolemea, a punishment so called,i. .



Ncoptolemus, the son of Achilles, Iff.‚ñ† ‚Äî‚Äî, a picture of, iii. .



Neotheus, ii. .



Neptune venerated by the Tiocieniaistunder the appellation of the king, ..



* , called in common by all na≠tions, Pdag√¶an, Afphalican, andHippian, ii. .



‚ñ† equestrian, a statue of, de≠dicated by Ulysses, ii. .



, a giove of, called Poseidonion,



iii. .



, the meaning of his contend≠ing with the fun, iii. .



, why represented with a tri*



dent, iii. .



, Hippocuriui, the meaning ofaiii. .



Neris, the town, i. S.



Nero, the empervr, i. .



NerO|



 



I N D fc k.



Uero, the gifts of, i.lt.



< dedicated crowns in the temple



of Olympian Jupiter, ii. . gave liberty to all the Grecian



cities, without injuring the Roman



empire, ii. a.



entirely destitute of love, iii. .



plundered the temple of Apollo



at De'phos, iii. .NelTus, the centaur, iii. .Nestane, the ruins of, ii. .Nestor, the son of Neleus, i. .*- ‚Ä¢ reigned over the Meffcnians,



¬ª-  ¬´‚Ä¢



-, the house of, i. .-, a picture of, i. . iii. .Nicagora, i. .



.Nicander, a king of the Laced√¶mo≠nians, i. .



‚ñ† , the Ion of Charillu, i. .



, a victor in the Olympic



games, ii. .



Nicasipolis, iii. .



Nicias, i. .



Nicias, the moll excellent painter ofanimals  his time, i. . . ii. r.



Nicippe, the daughter of Pafeas, ii.



¬ª- \Nicocles Olympionice, i. .



Nicodamus, the statuary, ii. . ..



>!icomachus. i. .



Nicomedes, king of Bithynia, a sta≠tue of, ii. .



Nicostratus, the son of Menelaus, i. .



, a victor in the Olympic



pancratium, and in wrestling, ii.



. - *-



Night, the oracle of, i. .



, according to the Smyrnaeans, die



mother of the Nemefes, ii. .‚Ä¢ ', mystic particulars respecting the



oracle of, iii. .Nile, the, produces river-horses and



crocodiles, i. *.Nileus, the son of Codrus, ii. .Niobe, ii. c.



Nifaea, the haven, i. . .



‚Äî‚Äî, the tower, i. .



Nifus had purple hairs on his head, i.



**' ¬´ , ‚ñ†‚ñ†



Nomia, a picture of, in. .



Nomophilaces, the Spartan, i. .



Nonacris, a small Arcadian city, ii.



‚Ä¢S-



Nonnus, iii. .



Nora, the city, iii. .



Norai, the son of Mercury, iii. .



Nostoi, the poem, iii. . .



Nus the river, ii. -



Nycteus, a king of Thebes, iii. II.



Nyctimus, the eldest son of Lycaon,



ii. % . .Nymboeum, the lake, i. .Nymphades, the gates, i. .Nymphafia, the fountain, ii. .Nymphs, an account of the, from the



MS. Commentary of Hcrmias oa



the Phxdmi, iii. .‚Äî‚Äî, distributed by Servius inu¬ª



three classes, iifc :. Sithnidan, i. .



o.



OCCULT, an entrance so call¬´in Altis, ii. .



Ocean, why called a river‚Äîaccount of,from the MSS. S^liol. of Proclusonthe Ciacylus, and from his Com≠mentaries on the Timaeus, iii. .



-, according to the Athenians,the father of Nemesis, ii. .



Ocnus and his ass, a picture of, iii.



. .



Ocnus, the bird, the largest and most ‚Ä¢beautiful of herons, iii. .



Odeum, Athenian, and the statues itcontains, i. .



, the building, in Corinth, i.



.



‚Äî‚Äî, the, in Achala, ii. .Oeanthea, the city, iii. .Oebalus, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî, the son of Cynortas, i. . , the Spartan, his stratagem,



'‚Ä¢ -



Oebous, a victor in the Olympic sta≠dium, ii. .Oechalia, i. .Oedipodia, the fountain, iii. .‚Äî‚Äî, veifes so called, iii. .Oedipus, iii. . .Oen√¶, i. .



Oencad√¶, the, vanquished j>y the Mef.



fenians, i. .Oeneui, the son of Porthaon, i..Oenobius, i. .



Oenoe, an Argive city, iii. .



Ocnomaus,



 -IN D E X.



Oenomaus, the son of Alxion, ii .



‚ñ† ' ‚ñ† , a statue of, ii. . .‚ñ† ‚ñ† ‚ñ† , the pillar of, ii. .Ocnone, the island, i. .Oenopion, ii. .



Oenotnis, the youngest son of L"caon,



ii. =-



Oenufse, the island, i. S.Oeonus, i. .Oepytus, i..Oetris, the city, ii. .Oetylos, i.  .Oetylum, i.  (.



Oeygus, king of the Ectenar, iii. tc*.



¬©ihotas, a v.ctor in tlie Olympic sta≠dium, ii. ' .



Olbia. the city, iii. .



Olbiades, i. .



Oibius, the river, ii. .



Oi'-i, the poet, i. ). . ii. in.. iii. .



¬©lenius, ii. .



Olenos, an Achaian city, ii. it. .Olidas, the Elean, ii. -.Olive-tree, calked Intoned, i. itj.Olive-trees which bear no fruit, called



by the Troeaenians, Jlachi, i. an.Olympian Jupiter, a deTcription of his



statue, ii. .Olympias, the son of Philip, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî, the mother of Alexander,



iii. .



‚ñ† , the fountain, ii. .



Olympic games by whom, and whenfirst established, ii. ¬ªo‚Äî.'



‚Ä¢‚Äî , the older in which



they are celebrated, ii. .



Olvtnpkum, a grove of Jupiter so call-ed, i. .



Olympiodoius, a statue of, i. .



‚ñ†' ‚Äî, his prosperous under≠



taking and honours, i. , .



~- ‚ñ†‚Äî, pictures of his achieve≠ments in Elcusis, i. .



‚Äî ‚Äî, the Platonic philosopher,



extract from the MSS. Schol. of, ontheGorgias, iii. ,. ..



‚Äî , extract from the MS.



Commentary of, on the I'h√¶do, iii.



. -‚Ä¢ 'S- -



¬´, his division of the mun≠dane gods, iii. .Olysnpiosthencs, the statuary, iii. .Olympium, i. .Olympus, the statuary, ii. .S



Olympus, a picture of, isi. rft.Olynthos, or the wild fig-tree, cast*!by the Meficnians, Tragoj, i. .



Omphace, Iii. .



Ompliahon, the painter, the discipleof Nicias, the son of Nicotnedcs,i. :.



Onarthus, the statuary, ii. to.Onasias, the painter, iii. Onalsimedes, the statuary, iii. .Onatis. a pictuie ol ihe expedition of,



to the Argive Thebes, iii. .‚Ä¢ ‚ñ† ‚ñ† ‚ñ†, the statuary, ii. . '.



iii. . ¬´.Onchestus, the city, i. .



‚ñ†‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚ñ† , ruins of, iii. cB,



Oncus, the son of Apollo, ii .Onomacritus, i. . ii. . . iii.



.



Onomarchus, king of the rhocenfes,iii. .



Onomastus, victor in the exstus in the



Olympic games, ii. .Opheltes, i. .



Ophion a most ancient god, the famewilh (he Orphic dragon, iii, .



Ophion?us, the piophet, i. ".



Opiiis, the river, ii. .



Opis, the goddess* i. . ii .



, king of the Iapyges, a statue of,



iii. .



, the meaning of the word ac≠cording to Callimachus, iii. .



Oplodamas, ii.  s.



Opportunity, the first cause, se calledby the Pythagoreans, iii. .



Opus, the city, iii. C.



Oracle of Amphilocvs, i. lot.



Apollo, i. . . .



'‚Äî- '- ' = - ¬∞¬ª -it, lir. . . . . -,iii. .. .. . . .'-



‚ñ† Diradiotes, particu≠lars of, i. CJ.



Clarian Apollo, iu .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Apollo at Delphoj, said tobe the most ancient of any on Earth,iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî respecting Homer,



iii. .



- Bacchus, respecting the de≠



struction of Libethria, remarkablyveiilied, iii. .



 Kacii, iii. ;J.



Oracle,



 



INDEX. 



Oracle, the, concerning the bladder,



iii. .



‚Äî‚Ä¢‚Äî--, remarkable account of one ina temple of Ceres ii. ?.



‚ñ† of Apollo Thryxeus. ib.



. of Kudus the prophet re≠specting Hunter, iii. .



, a remarkable one of Her≠



cules, ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî of Dodonaean Tupirer, ii..



* of Mercury, a remarkable ac≠



count of the, ii. .



‚ñ† Pythian, i. T.TT.



a SiSylline. ii. ?. iii. .



* of Mufaeus, iii. .



of Trophonius, i. .



Oracles, the scientific theory of, un≠folded, iii. .



‚Ä¢‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, not the tricks of fraudulentpriests‚Äîvhy they ceased, when theChristian religion made its appear≠ance, iii l i).



Or√¶a, Troesen so called, i. .



Drchomenii, the, ii. .



Orchomenus, the city, particulars ofthe ancient affairs of, iii. ,



‚ñ† ‚Ä¢ , the son of Minyaj, iii..



Orestes, i. 



‚ñ† , the tabernacle of, i. ., reports of, ii.  ?-



 ‚Äî, the Roman, is sent by the



Romans into Greece, ii. .Oresthafium, the city, ii. . .Orestheus, the son of I.ycaon, ii. e.



- Deucalion, iii.



.



Orestorius, a commander of the Gauls,unparalleled cruelty of, iii. .



Orio:,, a statue of Apollo so called,i- .



Orithyia, ii. .



Orneat, i. .



Orneus, the son of Erectheais, i. .Orontes, a Syrian river, ii. .Orontes, the Indian, the dead body of,



discovered, which was more than



eleven cubits in altitude, ii. .Oropus, the city, i. . . ii. .Orpheus, i. . !?. . . iii. ,., a statue of, made by the Pe-



lafgi, ..



. , iii. .



. , various accounts of the death



of, iii. , .



Vol. III.



Orpheus, a picture of, iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, the hymns of, preferred tothose of Homer for teligious purposes,though inferior to them in elegance,



iii. 



-, the meaning of his being fol≠



lowed by wild beasts, iii. .Orphic hymns, the, which exist atpresent, proved to be the hymntwhich were used in the Elcufinianmysteries, iii. .Orphonda^,, a victor in the Pythian



contest with colts, iii. .O f bii, i. .Ortilochus. i.  ^.



, the son of Diocles, i. .



Orus. an V.gyc.tian ueitv, the famewith Apollo and the Sun, iii. .Otus, iii. .



Oxylus, the son of Hamon, ii. t.Ozol√¶, the, i. . iii. .



P.



PACHYNOM, the promontory,



ii. . iii. . Pactyas, the Lydian, i. .Pasanius, a victorious wrestler in the



Olympic and Pythian games, ii. .P√¶dige, an inclosure so called, i. .P√¶na, a dreadful beast, i. .P√¶on, i. . ii. .P√¶oneus, one of the Curetes, ii. ,Pseonius, the statuary, ii. .Pag√¶j the town, i. .Pagondas, a victor in the cample



horse-race in the Olympic games, ii



.



Palamedes, i. .



‚ñ† '' , a picture of, iii. .



Palladium, a tribunal in Attica, i. .Pallantium, the city, ii. . .Pallas, the son of Lycaon, ii. .Palus, a plain in Arcatiia, ii. .Pamifus, the river, i. . . c.Pammerope, i. .Pamphus, the poet, i. . . ii.



. iii. . *.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, composed the mostancient hymns for the Athenians,



iii. .



-, the first that celebrated the



Graces in verse, iii.. .Pamphylus, the scnel√Ügimius, j. .D * Pan,



o¬´ I N D E X.



*



Pan, the summit of all the sublunarylocal gods and d√¶mons, iii. .



¬ª , the, that met Philippidcs, aniccount of, iii. J.



. ‚ñ† Scolitas, a brazen statue of, ii..



- Sinois, a statue of, ii. -



Panathenaia, the greater and lesser of



the Athenians, the meaning of, iii.



.



Pancirollus, iii. $.Pjncratiastai, the Olympic, ii. .Pancratium, the meaning of, iii. .Pandarus, the daughters of, pictures



of, iii. .Pandion, the monument of, i. .‚Äî‚Äî, a status of, i. . II;.Pandora, the meaning of the fable of,



iii. .



Panopeus, the son of Phocus, i. . ‚Äî, the city, iii. , i t.



Panormus, the port* i. . ii. ..



Fantaliontes, the sen of Omphalion,ii. .



Pantarces, a victor with the vaultinghorse in the Olympic games, ii. .



‚ñ† , an Elean youth who wasenamoured with Phidias, ii. .



‚ñ† , a victor in wrestling in theOlympic games, ii. .



Panthalis, a picture of, iii. .Pantias, the statuary, ii. :. .ranyaiis, the poet, iii.  .



‚ñ† ‚Äî, verses of, iii. .Paphia, a brazen statue of, i.  .Paraballon, a victor in the Olympic



repeated course, ii. .Parabyston, ¬ª place osjudgement among



the Athenians, i. .Paracyparirh√¶Achaian, the city, i. .Parammon, an appellation of Mercury,



ii. .



Parapotamii, the city, lit. ic¬ª.Pariani, the, iii. .Paris, i. .



‚Äî, a picture of, iii. .



‚ñ† , the fable of, respecting his judge>rr.ent of the goddesses explained, iii..



Parathemidat, iii. .



Parnassus, the son of the nymph Cle-



odora, iii. .Parorcui, the sesw sf Tricolinus, ii.



Paroria, the city, ii. .Paroselene, i. .



Parphorus, the Colophonian, ii. iJ¬ª



Parrhasius, the painter, i. ."‚Ä¢, the grove, ii. .



Parrots only to be found among the In≠dians, i. .



Farthaon, ii. ;.



Parthenia, the river, ii. .



Parthenius, the mountain, ii. .



, the Laced√¶monian, iii.



.



Parthenopxus, the son of Talaus, iir. "‚Ä¢



Parthenope, the daughter of Ancseufj,



ii. .Faticrates, ii. .



Pasiteles, the self-taught artist, ii. .Patsechus Achacus, a victor in the



Olympic race with the walking



horse, ii. .Patr√¶, the city, i. . ii. .‚ñ† , the women of, remarkably



prone to venery, ii. .Patreus, the son of Preugenes, ii. lSt.



s



Patrius, a statue se called, i. .Patrocles, the statuary, ii. . iii. .Patroclus, an Athenian istandL, i. . , one of Ptolemy's contmand-



ers, i. .‚Äî‚Äî, the friend of AchiHes, ii.



-



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, a picture of, iii. .Pausanias, the sen of Plestoanai, leads



an army into Attica, i. t}i. , the son of CleoBibrotut,



the conduct of, towards a woman



whose name was Coa, ii. makes a league with the



Thcbans, and flies to the Tegeatar,



i. .



‚Äî‚Äî, ihe general of the army inthe batti- at Plat√¶√¶, story respect≠ing, i. .



‚Äî: ‚ñ†‚Äî, the statuary, iii. .



Paufias, the painter, two pictures of,i. .



Pauson, the statuary, iii. .Pegeea, the Nymph, ii. .Pegasus, the hoof of, a channel for iff



ter, i. .Pelagon, ii. .



Pelagos, a place in Arcadia, ii. .¬ªo.



Pclarge,



t N D E



felirge, the daughter of Pornetti, iii.Pclasgus, ii. .



Feleades, the prophctesles, verses of,



iii. -Pcleus flew Phocus, i. .Pclias, ii. it.Pelis, a picture of, iii. .Pellanis, the fountain, i..Pellene, an Achaian city, ii. lSt.



.



Pelopidas imprisoned by Alexander,



who reigned in Toeflaly, iii. .Pelops reigned in rifca ii. .'first built a temple te Mercury,



in Peloponnesus, ib.- established games to Jupiter O-



lympius, ii. .



, sacred grove of, ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, a circumstance respecting the



bones of, ii. .Pelorui, the Spartan, iii. .Pencala, the river, ii. .Peneleus, iii. .Penelope, i. .Pencus, the river, ii. .Pentathlus, iii.  r.Penthefilea, a picture of, iii. .Pcntheus, the sen of Echion, iii. .Penthilus, i. .



Pephnos, a maritime city of the Spar≠tans, the island, i. .Per√¶thenses, the city, ii. .Per√¶thus, it.Perantas, i. $.



Pereus, the sen of Flatus, ii. ,Pergamus, ii. .



Periandcr, the son of Cypfelus, i. .Periboca, the daughter of Alcathous,



i. .Pericles, a statue of, i. .Pericletus, the statuary, ii. .Periclus, ii. .Peridymenus, iii. .Periclytus, the son of Euthymachus,



iii. .



Perieres, the,son of √Üolusj i. ..



¬´ of Chakis, i. J.



Ferilaus, the for. ot Ancseus, ii. .



, the son of Icarius, ii. .Perimeda, the daughter of Oeneus, ii.'-



Perimedet, a picture of, iii. ).Periphetes, ii. .



Pero, the daughter of Ncleus, a pic≠ture of, iii. .



Peroe, the river, iii. .



Persae, statues of, i. .



Persea, a fountain so called, i. tio.



Peiseus, i. . .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, the founder of Mycerue, andwhy he built it, i. .



, particulars of, i. , T.



Pcrsica, the, a Spartan porch, i. all.



Persuasion, the gaddd's, a statue of,



i. .



Petcus, the sen of Orneus, i. . iii.



.



Petra, the fountain, iii. .Petrachos, the precipice, iii. tot.Petrosaca, a place in Arcadia, ii. .Phzdimus, a viftor over boys in th*



Olympic pancratium, ii. .Ph√¶dra, the daughter of Minos, iii, ,



', a picture of, iii. .Phaennis, the prophetess, iii. ;.



 , an oracle of, iii. .Phsestus, i.  j . .Phaeton, the fable of, explained, ill.



.



Phal√¶cus, the son of Phayllus, andking of the Phocenfes, iii. .



Phalarfi√¶, the city, ii. .



Phalanthus, the son of Agelaus, ii.-



‚ñ†' ‚ñ†, the Spartan, a remark.



able story of, iii. .Phalareus, ii. .Phalarus, the river, iii. Phalces, the son of Tcmenus, i. .



.



Phalysius, remarkable story of, iii. .Phana, the city, iii, .Phanas, i. .



Pharae, an Achaian city, i. , ii..



given to the



Patrenfes by the Emperor Augustus,



ii. .Pharandates, i. ai.Pharax, ii.  -



Phares, the son of Philodamia, ii. .Pharis,jhe sen of Mercury, i. . -, a Laced√¶monian city, i. .



Pharmakides, or witches, Theban Aa -



tues, so called, iii. .Phayllus, the brother of Onomarchus,



and king of the Phocenfes, iii. ic.D d ¬ª f helloe,



¬© I N ) E X.



Phelloe, a small Achaian town, li..



Phemonoe, the first prophetess of Apol≠lo, iii. .Pheneas, the city, ii. , .Pheneu¬ª, ii .



Pherenicus, the Elean pugilist, ii. .



Phcrias, a victorious wrestler in theOlympic games, ii. .



Phialus, the son of Bucolion, ii .



Phidias, ii   r. . . . .iii. . .



. made a sl¬ªtue of Celestial Ve≠



nus, .



‚ñ† made a brazen statue of Apollo,i. .



‚ñ† Miner≠va, i. %o.



. made a statue of Nemesis, i.



. .



‚Äî‚Äî, the workshop of, ii. .



Phidolas, the mare of, ii. .



Phidon, the most insolent tyrant inGreece, ii. .



Phigalia, the city, ii. .



Phigalus, ib.



Bhilagri-js, the son of Cyneus, ii. .Philammon, iii. . U.Phibnorium, i. .Philanthu, the sen of Prolaus, ii. .Philesius, the statuary, ii. .Philinus, a statue of, ii. .Philip, the son of Amyntas, caused theEleans to be involved in a civil war,



i. .



, a statue of,



ii. .



‚ñ† ‚ñ† , not a good



commander. Ice. ii. .



i. . brought the



bones of Linus to Mac¬´don:a, incon≠sequence of a dream, iii. .'



Philip the younger fortified three cities,which through his contempt of theCreeks he called keys, ii. .



-, the sen of Demetrius, filled allGreece wkh terror, ii. -



-, the eldest sen of Caffander,



iii. .



Philippides, i. . ii. .Philippus, the pugilist, ii. $.Philistus, the sen of Archomenides,ii. .



Philitas, a victor in the Olympicatestus with boys, ii. at.



Philles, a victor in the Olympic jtme*



in wrestling, ii. .Phillias, the river, i. .Philiipeion,  round building in Altis,



ii. .



Phillus, the [daughter of Alcimedon,



ii. .



Philocles, a commander of the Athe≠nian fleet, iii. .Philoctcies, ii. . .Philodamia, the daughter of Dar.ius,



i. . ii. .



Philogcnes, the son of Euctemon, ii..



Philolius, a name given to √Üsculapius



by the Spartans, i. .Philomela, iii. .Philomclus, the son of Theotemut, iii.



ton.



Phjlon, the pugilist, ii. lit. , a victorious boy in the Olym≠pic race, ii. .Philonides, a statue of, ii..Philonosne, the daughter ofCraugafus,



iii. ,



Philopoemen, the son of Craugis, t.



. ii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, general of the forces



sent against the Achaians by Atta-



lus, ii. .



, particulars of, ii. ‚Äî



-



, the last of the Creeks,



it. -



Philoras, the grandson of Pcneieus,



ii. . .



Philolimus, the statuary, ii. .Philoxenus, i. . .Phineus, ii. .



Phintas, theson of Sybotas, i. . ?.Phitidia, i. .



Phlegon Trallianus, remarkable histo≠ries, from the treatise os De Mi-rabilibus, iii. .



Phlegyas, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî, the son of Mars, iii. .Phlias, particulars of, i. .Phliasia, . .



Phliafian tower, particulars of, i. .Phlygonium, the city. iii. .Phlyus, the son of Earth, i. .Pboccnses, the war of the, against tie



Thessalians, iii. .‚ñ†‚ñ† , the memorable transactions



ti, iii. ioj.



PfcociCj



I N ) E X, 



Fhocic, er sacred war, the causes andparticulars of, iii. ICJ, .



‚Äî- desperation, the origin of thephrase, iii. .



war brought to in end by Phi≠lip, iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî- cities, the destruction and resto≠ration of, ii.



Phocicon, the building, iii. .



Phocicus, the city, iii. .



Phocis, a city under Parnassus, ii.



'-, particulars of, iii. .Fnocus, the son of Urnytion, i. .



iii. , C. (, a picture of, iii. .Fhoeb√¶an marsti in Troczen, i. .Phoenicus, the port, i. .Phoenix, the river, ii. .Phoezi, a place in Arcadia, ii. .Pholoc, the mountain, ii. .Phorbas, the son of Lapilhas, ii. .



‚ñ† ‚Äî, the Athenian archon, ii. .Phormio, the son of Asepichus, i. ,



iii. a.



Phormio, the Spartan, i .



-‚Äî, a victor in the Olympicgames, ii. .



.‚Äî, the Erythr√¶an, ii. .Pbormis Msenatius, the offerings of,



ii. .



Phoroneut, by what kings he was suc≠ceeded, i. .



‚ñ† ' the inventor of fire, ac≠cording to the Argives, i. ii.



Phradmon, the ilatuary, ii. .



Phraortes, i. .



Phraficlides, the Athenian archon, ii.



- '-Phreattys, i, .Fhrixa, the ruins of, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî, the Nymph, ii..Phrixus, the son of Athamas, i. .



iii. .



‚Ä¢ , the river, i. .



Phrontis, the pilot of Mcnelaus, a pic≠ture of, iii. ?.



Phrudarchidas, iii. .



Phrync, the courtezan, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî, a golden statue of, made byPraxiteles, iii. .



Phrynichus, the poet, iii. .



Phrynon, ii. .



Phylacus, an heroic grove of, iii. .Phyleus, the eldest sen of Augeas, ii.-



Physcoa, a choir so called by the



Elcans, ii. .



Picture in the Athenian porch calledVarious, particulars of, i. .



of Bacchus leading Vulcan



back to heaven, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî of l'entheus and Lycurgus,suffering the punilhment of their im≠piety towards Bacchus, ii.



- of the entciprizc of Ulysses



against the fuitois, i. .



‚Äî in the tomb of Xenodice, i.'-



Pictures in the temple of √Üsculapiusamong the Mcssemans, i. .



Piera, the fountain, ii. .



Picria, the wife of Oxylus, ii. .



Pierui, the river, ii. .



‚Ä¢ , the Macedonian, oidered that



nine Muses ihould be worshipped,iii. .



Pindar, i. . . . . ;.ii. .. . (. . iii. ).>-



, statue of, i. ;



, verses of, i. .



‚ñ† ‚Äî composed hymns in honour of



Ammon. iii. ,.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, what first induced him to com-.



pose verse , iii. .



‚ñ† , remarkable dream of, ii.



‚Äî, ruins of the house of, iii. .



‚Äî, a verse of, iii. Ilsi.



‚ñ† , the throne of, iii. .



Pionix, the city, iii. .



Pionis, one of the posterity of Her-



cules. ii.



Pijies of the ancients, a curious accountof, from two Greek MSS. iii. ,-



Pi .ca, the grove, i. .Pit.eus, i. t.



Pirasos, the sen of Argus, i. .Pircne, water of, i. .Pirithous, ii. .



, a picture of, iii. lSj.



Pirus, the river, ii. tie.



Pisander, the Camirensian, a poet, i.



., it.  jt.Pisias, the statuary, . .Pifidorus, the Olympic victor, ii. .



.



Pills, a picture of, iii. .Pisistratus, i. . .‚ñ† collect*! the scattered verses



Dd  as



 IN] E X.



of Homer into one regular poem,



ii. .



Pison, the statuary, ii. .



Pisut Perieres, ii. ft. .



Pitanati, the, i. .



Pitho, one of the Graces, according to



Hermesianax the poet, iii. ;.Pitticu , the Mitylen√¶an, iii. .l'iitheus taught the art of speaking, i.







Pityreus, i. .



Pityusa, the island, i. .



Platasa, the daughter of king Afopus,



iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, the city, the destruction of,ii.



Platanista, Spartan games so called, i..



Plataniston, the fountain, i. ;. ii.-



Platanistut, the promontory, i. .Platanius, the river, iii. .Flatensis, i. .



Plato, a beautiful saying of, ii. ., according to the ancients, de≠scended from Apollo‚Äîremarkabledream of, with its explanation bythe Socratic Simmias, iii. .



. , observation of, in the Gorgiaa,



iii. .



‚Äî, extract from the Ph√¶drus of,iii. .



‚ñ†   ¬ª an epistle of, iii.'*-



‚Äî, his account of the advantageswhich men derived from prophecy,iii. .



Flemnaeus, i. .



Plestoanax, i. r.



Plethrium, a place sq called in theGymnasium in ¬£lis, ii. .



Plistxnus, a statue of, ii. .



Plistarchus, the son of Leonidas, |..



Plistus, the river, iii. .Plotinus, iii. .



Pluto, called by Pindar, Chrusenios,iii. .



‚Äî, why represented with a helmet,iii. .



‚ñ† , why represented with a key,iii. .



, beautiful account of, from theMSS. SchoL of Procluj on the Gra-fylus, it.



Podalirius, i. .Podares. ii. .



Poemandrui, the son of Chajrefibus,



iii. .



Poemcnides, grnves f.xred to theNereides, so called, i. .



Pclcas, ii.  .



Polernaichus, i. .



Polenor, the Centaur, ii. .



Polichjs, the statuary, ii. .



Poliies, a victoi in the Olympic race,ii. r.



‚Äî , a servant of Menelaus, ^



picture of, iii. .Pollux, i. . ii. .Polosoa, a place in Tanagra, iii. .Polus, ii. :.



Poiyandria, busts so called, i. .



Polyarchus, iii. .



Polybius, the son of Lycortas. ii. ,



‚Äî , a statue of, ii. ylb. . .



Polybus i. .



Polycaon, the son of Lelex, i. ,



 <‚Ä¢



, the son of Buies, i. j).r.



Polychares. the Messenian, i. .Polycles, the statuary, ii. -



, the sons of, statuaries, iii.



.



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, a victor in the Olympic



horse-race, ii. .Polycletus, the statuary, i. S. .



.  . ii. . . . .



.



Polyctor, the Elean, ii. j. .Polydamas, a man of great stature, a



statue of, ii. . , instances of his valour, ii.



. .



Polydectes, the son of Eunomus, i. .Polydora, the daughter of Meleager, i..



Polydore, the son of Cadmus, iii. .Polydorus, a Spartan king, i. . ii.



-



, the son of Ippomedon, th(ft uue of, i .



, the son of Alcamenes, i.



^‚Äî', a statue of, i. S.



Polyducea, the fountain, i. .Polygnotua, the painter, i. - i,iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, the pictures of, an accountof, iii. ‚Äî^.



Polyirktj,



I N D e i. 



Polyidus, i. .



Polymestor, the last of √Üginetas, ii.



ij.



Polymnestus Colophooius, i. .Polyniccs, a victor in the Olympic



race, ii. . , the son of Oedipui, iii. .



-, a statue of, i. .



Polypemon, the robber, i. III.



Polyphron, iii. .



Polypithet Lacon a victor in the horse≠race of the Olympic games, ii. .



Polypoetes, the (on of Pirithous, a pic≠ture of, iii. .



Polytichides, the town, ii. .



Polytion, house of, i. .



Polyxena, a picture of, iii. ?.



Polyx:nus, the son of Agasthenes, ii..



Polyxo, the wife of Tlepolemus, i.Jl*.



Pompus; an Arcadian king, ii. .Pontinus, the grove, i. .Porch, royal, in Attica, i. .. . , and the statues



which it contains, i. . , which contains the pictures of



the twelve gods, i. .‚Äî called Various, i. .



, its contents, i.



.



‚Ä¢ -, statues before



it, i. ?.Porinas, the river, ii. .Porphyrion reigned in Attica prior to



Act√¶us, i. .



Porphyry, iii. .Port, secret, in√Ügina, i. .Porta Baptists, iii. ;.Postdion, the, ii..I'osidonias, the city, i. tj.Pothseus, the architect, ii. .Pothos, the meaning of the word, ac≠cording to Plato, iii. .Polnize, the ruins of, iii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, goddesses, ii.Prax, the great-grandfon of Pergamus,



i. .. .Praxlas, the statuary, iii. .Praxidamaf, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Praxidica, a statue of. i.  tl.Praxilla, the poetess, i. .Praxiteles, the statuary, i. . . .‚Äî. ii. . C. . iii.. . . . tu.



Praxiteles, the sons of, i. .Preugtncs, ii- .Priam, a picture of, iii. -.Priapus, a statue of, iii. .Prias, ti. .Priene, the city, ii. .Prinus, a place so called in Arcadia,ii. .



Proclea, the daughter of Clytius, iii..



Proc.ei, the son of Aristodemus, i. .



, the Carthaginian* i..



‚Ä¢ -, the son of Pityreus, and leader



of the loncs, ii. .



‚Ä¢ , the boy, a victorious wrestler



in the Olympic games, .ii. .Proclus, the Carthaginian, i. ).



--, the philosopher, extract from



the MS. Commentaries of, on theAlcibiades, iii . .



, extract from the MSS. Schol.



of, on the Cratylua, iii. . .. - ^. .‚Ä¢ .-, extract from the Scholia of,



on Hdiod, iii. ... ... MS. hymn



of, entitled, t-Kvoc xmxk, or, a com≠mon hymn, iii. .



> ‚ñ† i' treatise of,



De Magia, iii. .



‚ñ† ‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Commenta≠ries of. on Plato's Re public iii- ' .



‚ñ† six books of,



on the Theologv of Plato, iii. ^.



‚ñ† ‚Äî Commenta≠ries of, on the Timarus, iii. . .



- m-Procne, i. .



Procns, the daughter of Erectheus, i.



. iii. .', apictureof, iii. .



Prodigies significant of the ruin of the



Messenians, i. , ;-Prodition baneful to the Achaians, ii..



Proetus, i. . .



‚ñ† daughters of, the statues of,i  .



Prolius. ii. .



Promachos, a stone statue of Hercules,



. ;.



Promachus, the son of Parthenop√¶us,



iii .



‚ñ† -, a statue of, i. I. iii.-



li d  Promachus,



? INDEX.



Promachus, the son of Hercules, ii.



.



Promedon, a picture of, iii. .Prometheus, a definition of, iii, , ‚ñ† -, why burning lamps were



employed in ihe contest sacred to,



iii. .



-, the son of Codrus, ii.



Ptolemy, the son qf Damasichthon, ill*



Promne, the wife of Buphagus, ii. .Promontory, a, called the jaw-bone of



an ass, i. .Pron. the hill, i. .Pronomus, the piper, i. .‚Äî‚ñ†  , a statue of, iii. ?,Propylxa, vestibules so called, i r.Proserpine's grove, a picture of, iii.



.



Prosymna, i. .



Prosymne, the statue of, i. .



Protesilaus revenged on himl'eli Perses



Artabaetes, i. J to. ii. .



. a picture of. iii t?.



Protolaus, theOlympic pugililt, ii toe.Protophane, a victor in the Olympic



pancratium, and inwicstiing, i. .



ti. ,



Providence, an energy prior to intellect,



iii-.Proxenus, ii. :i.



Prytanes, the Corinthian kings, i. '.Prytaneum, contents of, i. . .,Prytaneum, the, in Altis, li. .Prytanis. ii. t,Psamathc, . .Psamathus, i.  .



Psellus, extras from a very rare GreekMS. of, iii.  .



Psipkeum, a sea so called, i. ".



Psophis, the son of Archon, ii. J., the city, it.



. , the daughter of Eryx, ii.



Psylli, the, iii. :.



Psyttalia, a small island before Sala-mis, i. tO*>. ..



Ptolemy, the son of Berenice, trans≠actions of, i. , .



Ptolemy Philometcr, particulars of,i. >, . >



 , brazen statues of,



the brother of Lysandra, i.the son of Lagu, a statue os,



. -



.



. a victor in the Pythian con-.



test with the two-yoked car, iii. .



 , the astronomer, studied astro≠nomy for forty yeais in the Pteroi of



Catiobus, iii.  .Ptolichus 'he statuary, ii.  .Ptolis, a plain in Arcadia, ii. .Ptous. the of Athamas and The-



miitus. i i.  t.Puniceu%, a place of judgment among



the Athenians, i. .Pvla, king, i. lie.Pylades. i.  .  .



‚ñ† planned the death of Neopto-



lemus, i. 'at.Pyleus, the son of Clymenus, iii. .pylos, a city in the promontory Cory-



phafium. i. .Pylus, the son of Cleson. ii.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, an Clean city, the ruins of, ti.



ter.



Pyrxchmes, ii. .Pyrias, ii. .



Pyrilampes, a victor in the Olympic



Doiichos, ii. . ‚ñ† ., the statuary, ii. . .



III.Pyrrha,



the daughter of Crcon, iii.



.



Pyrrhichus, the god, one of the Cu-retes, i. .



  ', a Spartan town, ii.



Pyrihicius, i.  .



Pyrrho, the son of Pistocrates, a statue



of ii. .Pyrrhus, the architect, ii. . , a victor in the Olympic



horse-race ii-.



‚Äî the son of √Üacidas Aribbas,



statue of, i. .



‚Äî , particulars of, i. ‚Äî.



~ flies to Tarentum, i. .



- wars on Antigonus and theCreeks, i. ‚Äî.



, hi* death, i. . It,



., a trophy of. i. .‚Äî‚Äî~, the son of √Üacides, a statue



of, ii. ‚Ä¢ the son of Achilles, i. .



- plundered the temple of Apol≠lo at Delphos, iii. .



Pyth√¶us, a statue of Apollo so called,i. , 



Pythagoras,



INDEX.



Pythagoras, (he painter, iii. .



‚ñ† , the statuary, ii. . .



UT. I.



F\ihaeoias, the wise, the great grand≠son ot' Hippasos, i . iii. .Pytharatus, the.Meslenian commander,



i. .



Pytharcus, the Olympic victor in the



stadium, ii. .Pyihcs, the general of the B≈ìotians,



ii. .



Pythes, a sti'ue of, ii. i%.



Pythian games, an account of the, iii,



 ‚Äî-.Pythionice. i. ,Pyihis, the son of Delpho¬´, iii. ,Pythocritu-, a victorious piayeronthe



pipe in the Olympic g. mes, ii. ^.Pythodotu*. tiie statuary iii. .Python, the serpent, the symbolical



meaning of unfolded, iii. ".Pyttalus, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Pyttius, ii. .



Q^UADRANGLE, an inclosure in



the Elean Gymnasium, ii. -Qi ‚Ä¢ ... en .:.!, the meaning of the,



iii. .



R.



RHACIUS, a leader of the Cretans,



ii. .



Rhacotis, a small √Ügyptian city, ii..



Rhamnus, the town. i. .Rharium, a plain in Attica, i. .Rhegnidas, king of the Phliafians, i..



Rheti, channels so called, i. III. tot.Rhexibius, a victorious pancratiast in



the Olympic games, ii. .Rhianus, the Cretan, a verse of, i.



*.



‚ñ† ‚Äî celebrated the Meffenic war



in verse, i.  -¬ª ‚ñ† , verses of, i..Rhinoceros, the, why so called, iii.



.



jp.hiao, the promontory, ii. . .



Rhipes, in Achaian city, ii. iSr.Rhodes, the island, i. .Rhodos, a place in Sparta so called,'‚Ä¢ -



Rhoecus AmbrytTcnsis. iii. T.



¬ª, the son of Philxus, one ofthe first that taught how to cast brass,and melt it into statues, ii. ., the statuary, iii. fj.Rhun, a place in Attica so called, i..



Rhypa, the ruins of, ii. . .Rivers IliiTus and Eridanus, i. $. which ought to be called bru≠mal, and which cold, ii. , .Road, called the chariot, i. .



s.



SABBE, a Hebrew prophetess, iu."-



Sacadas, a victor in the Olympic gamea



with pipes, i. $. ii. ;.m ‚Äî, a statue of, iii. . .Sacxa, the island, ii. C.Sarsaia, i. .



Salagus, the son of Oenopion, ii. .Salamis, i. I.



, an Athenian island, i. .Salluit. extract from the golden treatise



of, On the Gods and the World, iii.



 .Salmoneus, the daughter of, a picture



of, iii. .Saloe, the lake, ii. .Sarnia, the city, ii .‚Äî‚Äî ‚Ä¢-, the daughter of the river Ma>



ander, ii. .Samicon, ii. .



Samos, a city of the Iones, it. .Samothrace, the island, ii. .Samus, the son of AucKus, ii. .Sandion, i. .Saon, iii..



Sappho, i. . iii. to. .



Sardinia, the istand, iii. .



‚Äî free from all poisonous hernr,



except one, which causes those wh¬ªeat it to die laughing, iii* .



Sardus, the son ot Maceris, iii. c.



Sarmatian coat of mail, and the mannerin which the Sarmatiansfight, i. S.



Saron drowned in pursuing a hind, i.



Satripua,



INDEX.



Satrapes, a statue so called by theEleans, ii. .



Saturn, why faMed to devour his chil≠dren, iii. .



, why called ayxtXoi/Ac, ii.



‚Äî‚Äî, why represented as an old man,and flow in his motion. ifi.



‚Äî , what is meant by his castrating



his father Helven, iii.‚Äî, the meaning ot his swallowinga colt and a stone instead ot Neptuneand Jupiter, iii .



‚Äî, the meaning rf his being de≠throned by Jupiter, iii. .



Satyr, statue of one, by Praxiteles, i.



Satyridae, islands so called, i. j.Eatyrus, the pugilist, ii i.Saunion, the fountain, iii. .^caea, the daughter of Danaui, ii. .Scambonid√¶, i. rn,Scandca, the haven, i. .Scedases, iii. .



Scenoma, a place in Sparta se called,



i. .



Scephius, the son of Tegeates, ii. .



Sceptre, the, which Vulcan made forJupiter, pauiculars of, iii. ,. , the meaning of one being fa≠bricated by Vulcan, ii.



Ethediusj kiBg of the Phocenses, iii.no.



> , a picture of, iii. .



Scheria, the island, i. .Schiste, the road, iii. .Schoenus, the town, ii. .Scias, a building se called in Sparta, i..



Scillus, the ruins of, ii. .



Sciron, i. . .



Scirum, i. .



Scirus, the prophet, i. .



Sclinus, the river, ii. .



Scolus, the ruins of, iii. .



Scopas, the statuary, i. . . 



ii. . . . .Scorpion, a, which had w ings similar



to those of a locust, iii. .Scortitas, a place full of oaks, i. .Scyllaeum, the promontory of, i. .Scylli, the statuary, i. . .



. ii. . (.



, the diver, a statue of, iii. ..



Scyppius, the city, ii: ,Scyraj, the river, i. .



Seasons, the, beautiful account .



from the Commentaries of Proclua



‚Ä¢n the Timarus, iii. .Seer, a worm, from the thread of which



the Seres make garments, ii. .Selafia, the ruins of, i. .Seleadas, a victorious wrestler in the



Olympic games, ii. .Selemnus, ii. aUJ.



, the meaning of hit being



chanced into a river, iii. .



Seleucus, particulars of, i. , .ii. .



, a statue of, ii. .



Selinuntes, the town, i. .Sclinus, tne river, ii. .Semele, i. -



‚Äî. , the meaning of her being lei



back to heaven by Bacchus, iii. .‚ñ† , the symbolical signification of,



iii -Semnac, or the Furies, . .Senate-house of the five hundred, and



the statues it contains, i. .Seps, the serpent, ii. .Serambus, the statuary, ii. .Seraplon, the Alexandrian pancratiaft,



ii. .



Serapis, the fame with the Pluto of



the Greeks, iii. .Seha, the island, ii. .Ship, an account of a prodigious large



one built by Ptolemy Philopater,



iii. .



Sicily, an account of the nations of,



ii. .Sicyon, i. .Sicyonia, i. .



Sicyonians, the debility of, i. .‚Äî‚Äî--, their manner of buryingtheir dead, i. .



, a treasury of the, iii. .



Sida, i. .



Side, the daughter of Danaus, i. .Silanion, the statuary, ii. . ,



.Silenus, i. .



, the eldest of the Satyrs, i.,



-, the Marfian, i. .Slmangelus, iii. .Simon, the statuary, ii. .Simonides, i. . . iii. c.



, an elegy of, iii. .Simplicius, extract from the Commen*Uiicsof) on Epictetus, iii. .



Simplicius,,



 



INDEX. *



SirnpliciuJ, extract from the Commen≠taries of, on Aristotle's Physics, iii.



.



- De Cselo, iii.



-



Simus, the foil of Ttmenus, i. ?.‚Äî‚Äî, the son of Plnalus, ii. ,Simulus, the Messenian, ii. .Sinis the robber, i. . .Sinon the companion of Ulysses, a



picture or, iii, .$iope, a road so called in Elis, ii.  $,Siphnii, the, a treisury of, iii. .Sipte, a fortihed city ot Thrace, ii. .Sipylus, the town, i. .Sirx, a place in Arcadia, ii. .Sirens, Homer's description of the,



iii. .



¬ª. , beautiful account of, from the



MSS. Schoi. of Proclus on the Cra-tylus, ii.



Sifyphu, the sons of, i. .



, a piSurc of, iii. .



¬ª -, the meaning of the fable re≠



specting the punishment of, explain*ed, iii. i?.



Sleep, above all the deities, friendly tothe Mules, according to the Troeze-nians, i. .



. , statue of, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî and Death, statues of, i. .



‚ñ† , why said by the an≠cients to be twins, iii. .



Sluggish, a stone so called in Sparta,



i. .



Smenos, the river, i. ^.Smicythus, an account of his gifts in



Olympia, ii. .Smilfs, the statuary, ii. .Socrates, a victor in the Olympic race,



ii. .



i , the son of Sophronifcus, madetwo statues for the Athenians, i. .



iii. ..Soda mas, i. .



¬ª ‚ñ† -f a victor in the Olympic sta-



dium, ii. .SoiJas, the statuary, ii. ,Solon, the Athenian, iii. ..Somis, the statuary, ii. .So*is, the son of Proclus, i. .Sophius, a victor in the Olympic race,



ii. fta.Sophocles, i. .nr¬´< . statue of, i. ,



Soron, a grove of oaks in Arcadia, ii.



Sofandcr, the Smyrnatan, ii. . .Sofigenes, ii. Sofipolis, the Daimon, ii. .Sostratus, the pancratiast, ii. .Sostratus Pellcncus, a victor over boya



in the Olympic stadiiim, ii. .Sotades, a victor in the Olympic longer



course, ii. f .Sparu, the image of, i. .‚ñ† , the wall of, demolished by the



Achaians, ii. .Spartans, the admire poetry the least



of all men, i. .‚ñ† . , sacrifice canine whelps



to Mars, . .Sparton, the sen of Tifamenus, it.



.



Spelai'ai, statues of Hercules, Mer≠cury, and Apollo, so called* iii* -Sphacteria, the island, i. . ii. .Sph√¶ria, a Troezenian island, i. .Sphxrli, the, i. .Sphaerus, ii. .



Sphettns, the sen of Troezen, i. szj.Sphinx, the particulars of, iii. $.‚Äî‚Äî -, explanation of the fable of,



iii. ;.



Sphirus, the son of Machaon, i. ,Sphregidion, the cavern, iii. .Spiders, curious particulars of, id..



SpintharuJ, the architect, iii. &



Stadicus, the statuary, ii. ;.



Stadium of white stone, i. .



Stags, white, ii. .



Statues before the entrance of the tern,pie of Juno, i.  r.



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî and sacred gifts among the



Eleans, an account of the, ii. .. in Olympia of thirty-five boyt



that were shipwrecked, ii. .



, the meaning of those thatwere called Diopeteis, iii. .



Stature, gigantic, common in the he≠roic age‚Äî-satisfactorily accounted forby the Platonic philosophy, iii. .‚ñ† remarkable histories of, from



Phlegon Trallianus, iii. .



Stazusa, the seunain, i..



Stemnatius, a grove in Sparta se called,..



Sienyclerus, the royal city of the Mef-senians, i. .



Steniclerio,



i I N ) E X.



Stenyclerus, the plain, i. .Stcphanus de Urhibuj, curious extract



from, respecting Pan, iii. .Sterrhis, the city, iii. .Stefichorus Himer√¶us, i. . .



ii. . iii. . . . .Steunos, t cavern in Phrygia, ii. .Sthcnelaidas, one of the Spartan Epho-



ri, i. .Sthenelas, i. .



Sthcnelus, the Ion of Capaneus, i. .



‚ñ† , the statue of, i. , iii.



I .



Sthenu, the statuary, ii. . , a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Stiris, the city, iii. .Stomius the statuary, ii. lift. , a victor in the Olympic quin-



quertium, ii. .Stratius, the son of Clymenus, iii. .Straton, the statuary, i. .. , a victor in the Olympic



games, ii. .Strongyle, the city, iii. .Strophius, a ptctuic of, iii. [.Struthuntes, the promontory, i. .Stryenfei, the, i. .Stymphalian biids, the meaning of



the, iii .Stymphalides, the, a description of,



ii. .



Stympha'.us, the son of ¬£latus, ii. .



, the city, ii. .



Styx, the water of, ii. .



, remarkable properties of its



water, ii. .



, of what the cause, iii. .



Sulpitiui, ii. .



Sumateus, ii. .



Sumatia, the city, it.



Sumboli, a place in Arcadia, ii. .



Sun, the, a brazen statue of, i.  ..



-, why said to be drawn byfour horses, iii. .



, why represented as perpe≠tually young, it.'



‚ñ† , table of the, in /Ethiopia,



iii. .



Sunium, the promontory, i. r.Surma Antigone, a place in Thebes,iii. .



Syadras, the statuary, ii. c.Sybariades, a victor in the Olympicrace with colts, ii. .



Sybotas, the son os DotadaJ, i. *,



Sylla, iii. .



took Athens, and on what ao¬ª



count, i. ‚Äî.



guilty of many cruelties to se≠veral nations, iii. .



died miserable, iii. .



Sylli, the city, iii. .



Symmachus, a wrestler in the Olympicgames, ii. .



Synallaxis, the Nymph, ii. .



Syros, the city, i. .



Sytha, the river, i. .



Sythse, the rivers, i. .



T.



TABUTES, a Persian, ii. ¬´.Tacus, a remarkable account from, of



the stone Caryftius, iii. .Talus, the son ofOenopion, ii. .T√¶ .arum, the promontory, i. .Talaus, i. 



Taleium, a place in Sparta, in whichthey laairice horses to the fun, i.   \.



Tanagra, the daughter of √Üolus, iii.-



Tanarus, i. .Tantalus, a picture of, iii. igt.... -, the port, ii. .



, sepulchre of, ii.



Tanus, the river, i. .Tatas, the hero, iii. .Taraxippos, the, in Altis, ii. J.Tarteslus, a Spanish river, ii. .Taryntha, the city, i. .Tauropilis, i. .



Tauroithenes, a victor in wrestling itthe Olympic games, ii. no.



Tatilus. the general of the army ofMithridates, iii. .



Taygetus, the mountain, i.  .



Tectaeus, the statuary, i. . iii. .



Tegea, the city, ii. .



Tegeatae, the, particulars of, ii. ,.



Telamon is condemned for contributing



to the death of Phocus, i. .Teleboae, i. .



Teleclus, a Spartan king, slain by the



Mefsenians, i. .Telegone, the daughter of Pharis, .:.Tclemachus, a victor in the Olympic



horse-race, ii. .



Tcleptui,



I N D ‚Ä¢ E X. 



Telephut, ii. . iii. .



‚ñ† , a fared grove of, ii. .Telesarchus, iii. .Telesilla, i. . .



the statue of, i. .



, gallant behaviour of, i. ,



.



Telestas, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Telestes, i. .



Telles, the son of Tifamenus,' ii. iSt.Tellias, the Phocensian prophet, iii..



Tellis, a picture of, iii. .



Tellon, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Telondes, iii. .



TemenU, gates of, a city so called, i.ioj.



Temenium, i. .Temenus, i. iSc.



‚Äî, the son of Pelafgus, ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî-, the son of Phegeus, ii. .Temnus, the town, ii. .Temple of Achilles, i.. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî √Üantideg, i. . √Üsculapius Aulonius, i.



the boy √Üsculapius, ii.



-



'¬ª- '



.



.



iii. .



Cotyl√¶us √Üsculapius, i.



‚ñ† √Üsculapius Dcmaenctus, ii.



‚Ä¢ √Üsymnctes, ii. .Agnetas, i. .



- Ajax, i. ;.



‚ñ† Alexandra, i.  r I*



‚Ä¢ Amazonian Apollo, i. *.



‚Ä¢ Ammon in Lybia, i. .



Amphiaraus, i. ioo. C.Temple, called Anactorus, i. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Antinous, ii. . Aph√¶a, in which Pindar



composed verses for the √Ügiueueji. .



Aphneus, ii. .



Apollo Acesius, ii. .



. Carneus, i. . .



.



Delphinian, i. .Diradiatcs, i. .Epibatcrius, i. .



Temple of Apollo Epidelium, i. .



. the Helper, ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî Ismenios, iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Latous, i. .



‚ñ† Lycius, i. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Maleatas, i.  J.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî^‚Äî Parrhafius, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Platanistius, i. ,



p Ptous, ii. J I.



‚ñ† Pythian, ii. O,



. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Thearian, i.. .



‚Ä¢‚Äî- Theoxenius, ii. .



Tutelaris, i. .



 in Delphos plunder≠



ed by the Phoccnscs, iii. .



‚Ä¢ , various



reports of the construction of, iii, .



dedicated by the em≠



peror Adrian, iii. .



Arsinoe, i.



‚Ä¢ Bacchus Acratophoros, ii.



..-



 -



M.



S.



- Aigobalos, iii. .



- Axites, ii. .



- Calydonius, ii.



- Colonata, i. ^.



- Crefius, i. %.



- Lamptcr, ii. .



- Lcucyanitas, ii.



- Lysian, Hi. .



- Melana.'gis,i..-, the Mystic, ii.



Nyctelius, i. .



Politej, ii. .



'Baton, i. .- Bellerophon, i. .



‚Ä¢ Belus in Babylon, i. .



the Cahiri remarkably holy



from the beginning, iii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Calatluia, i. .



Cassandra, the daughter of



Priam, i. .



Castor, i. .



the river Ccphissus, i. .



Ceres Chamyne, ii. .fi.



Elcusinia, i. .



ii. . . . iii. -



. Europa, iii. .the Helmet-bearer,



Temple



ii. .



H INDEX.



Temple, a holv one of Ceres, i. .



^. ii. .Temlpc of Ceres Mycalesiian, iii. . Mysian, i. .



‚ñ† ‚ñ† -- Panachata, ii. .



‚ñ† Pelasgis, i. .‚Äî Prostafia and Proser≠



pine, i. .



‚Äî Stiritis, iii. .‚Äî- Thcrmasia, i- .



‚Äî Thefmia, ii. .Thcsmophoros, i.



. . iii. . .



Virid, i. f.



.-, the Wool-bearer, i



.



 -,



. .



. Cleta, i. o.



‚Ä¢ Clymrnum, i. .



‚Ä¢ Cyamitas, i. .



‚Ä¢ Cychreus, i. :o.



. Diana√ÜginM, i. .



Diana √Ütola, iii. .



Agroicra, ii. .



‚ñ† Alphxa, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî Apaochomcne,..



Aricina, i. .



Altratea, i. .



Brauronian, i. .



Caltiftc, ii.-



Cnacalesia, ii. .



Cnateatis", ii. .



Cordace, ii.  *.



Coryphaean, i. J.



Daphnxa, i. .



Dcfpoma, ii. s.



Diclynna, i. .



Diana Dictynna, i. . iii.



Ephesian', ii. .



. .



- Eucleia, iii.V



- Hegemache, i. .



‚ñ† Hegemone, ii. .‚Ä¢ the Huntress, i. .



‚ñ† Hyrania, ii...



Iphigcnia, i. .



Isora, i. .



l.aphria, ii.  .



Limnaea, i. .



Limnatis, i. .



. it. . .



‚Äî‚Äî Lyccan, i. .



Lycoatis, ii. .



Mytia, i. .



‚ñ† Orlhia, i. . .



Temple of Ceres Paidotrophos, i.J*C*



‚ñ†  Pher√¶a, i. .



‚Äî Philomeirax, ii. ,



Propylata, i. n¬ª.



Pryonian, ii. .



'‚Äî‚Ä¢‚Äî Rural, ii.  :o.



‚Äî ‚ñ† Saronis, i. .



 -‚ñ† the Saviour, i. .



;-



.



one, ib.i. .



‚ñ† Sciadis, ii. .



Stymphalia, ii. s.



Triclaria, ii. .



the mother Dindymenc, ii*



Dionysius, i. .



, a most ancient



septum, i. 



Dryops, the son of Apollo,



Earth, i. .



which is called Ca-



i. j.



.i. ..



:.



-.



‚Ä¢, the nurse of youths,wide bosomed, ii-the gods, called Epidotar,the river Erymanthus, ii.



. Fuclea, i. .



‚Ä¢ Eurynome, ii. J.



‚Ä¢ Fortune Acraea, i.  '-



‚Ä¢ the Furies, ii. . .



‚Ä¢ the Good Dzmon, iii. ,



‚ñ† Good Fortune, ib.



the Good Gcd, ii. .the Greatest Gods, ii. .the Great Goddesses, ir*



the Great Mother, iit $~.Gorgasus and Nicomachuv,



‚ñ† Hades, ii.  c  -



‚Ä¢ Hebe, i. . .



‚Ä¢ Hercules Abia, i. .



 ‚Äî Cynofarges, i-  r.



lppodotos, iii. .



- Manticlus, i..



Hermes √Üpytus, ii. .Hilaira and Ph≈ìbe, i. .Hippolytus, i. .Hippollher.es, i. .the Hours, i. .I, i. .



Tempi*



I N  i E X. *



Temple os Id, ii. .



‚ñ† , which is called Ptla-



gia¬ª, i. .



‚ñ† , which is called √Ügyp-



tia, it.



Juno, Jupiter Panelleniui,



and to all the gods, built by the em≠peror Adrian, i. .



‚Ä¢ Juno Acrsa. i. .



Antheia, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Argive, i. ¬ª.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Bun√¶an, i. .



 Hyperchiria, i. .



‚ñ† the Perfect, i..



‚ñ† Prodiomia, i. .‚Äî‚Äî Jupiter Agorxa, i. ¬ª.



Aphesiuj, i. ¬ª.



Capitolinus, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Charmon, ii. s. the Congregator, ii.



.



‚Äî Cosmetas, i. .



‚ñ† Dodon√¶an, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Epidotos, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Euanemus, i. ,‚Äî‚Äî‚ÄîIthomcan, ‚ñ†. ¬ª



 ‚ñ† Judicial, iii. $.



the King, iii. *.



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Laristxus, i. .



‚Ä¢ Lycean, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Messapeus, i. .



‚ñ† ‚ñ† N-mean, i...‚Äî‚Äî OlympiuS) i. .



ii. .



‚Äî .‚Äî, built by



Deucalion, i. .



the Opulent,!. .



Philius, ii. .



-' ‚ñ†  Pluviu'., iii. *.



‚Äî Pulvercus,iii. .



‚ñ† Jupiter the Saviour, i. .. . ii. . .



‚Äî Tropieus, i. .



‚Äî in Olympia, the de≠scription of the, ii. .



‚Ä¢ Lycurgus, i. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Machaon, i. . the goddesses Maniai, ii.



-



Maro and Alpheus, i. .



'Meiampus Amythaon, i.



.



‚Äî Mene'.aus, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Messene, the daughter ofTriopas, i. .



Temple, cnlled Merron, or, the tem≠ple of the Mother of the Cods, ii. .



‚Äî Morpho, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚ñ† Mercury Acacesius, ..



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Criophoms, iii. *



‚ñ† - Cyllenius, ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Minerva Agorea, i. .



‚Äî Alea, ii. ..



‚ñ† Anemotis, i. .



'Apaturia. i. .



‚Äî‚Äî Areia, iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚ñ† Asia, i. .



‚Äî Axiop≈ìna, i. .



Temples, three, of Minerva Celeuthea,i. *.



Temple of Minerva, called Challtioi-



cos, iii. . -Chalinetis, i. .



‚ñ† Coria. i. .



Coryphafia. ..



‚ñ† Cran√¶a, iii. .



‚ñ† ‚Äî - Cydonia, ii. .'CypaiirTu, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Ergane, i. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Hippohitis,i..



‚Äî Inventive, ii.  ,.



'ltonia, i. . iii.



.



. ‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Lariss√¶a, ii. .



‚Äî Mcganira, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Ophthalmitis, i.c.



Panachais, ii.J.



‚Äî ‚Äî‚Äî Perspicacious, i.



.



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Polias, ii. .



--



Poliatis, ii. .



‚Äî, who is called Po-



liuchus and Chalcioccus, ii. . Promachoma, i<



**



‚ñ† ‚Äî‚ÄîPronoia, iii. .



Saitis, i. '.



Sciras, i. . .



'Sthenias, i. .



‚Äî Tclchinia, iii. .



Tritunia, ii. ., the Trumpet, i.



.



Necessity, i. .



*‚Äî ‚ñ† ‚ñ† Nemesis, ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî the Nereid Doton, i. .



‚Äî Neptune Atphalius, i. .



‚ñ† Epoptis, ii. .



Temple



* t N D E X.



ii.



Temple of Minerva Equestrian



‚Ä¢- - J-



theFa-hcr, . III.



'‚Äî Ge¬ªuchus, i -  .



- Genesian i. *.



‚Äî Hippocurius, i.



.



.



 g.



- Natal, i. -.



‚Ä¢ Onchcitian, iii.



‚ñ† Phytalmius, i.



- Prosdystius, i.



-T√¶narius, i.



- and its content!,



t. .



‚Ä¢ Octavia,. i. .



‚Äî Oebalut, i- .



‚Äî the god Ogoa, ii. .



‚Äî Paljemon, i. .



‚Äî Pallaiand Evander, ii. .



‚Äî Pan the Liberator, i. .



‚Äî ‚Äî Nomian, ii. .



‚Äî Pandrosus, i. .



‚Äî Parthenon, i. ..‚Äî Pelopj, ii. .



‚Äî Perseus, i. S.



‚Äî the goddess Persuasion, i.



Phaenna, i. .



the mother Plastene, ii. .



Polemocrates, i. .



Polias, i. .



the goddesses, called Praa-



idicai, lit. ¬∞-



Promach"S, iii..



Proserpine the Saviour, i.



‚Ä¢ the Huntress, iii.



S.



.



the gods who are calledPure, iii. i''.



called Puthion, iii. .



- of the Roman emperors, i. .



,. ‚Ä¢



.



Safety, ii. .Scrapis, i. . . ii.



Canopitanus, i.



-



Silenus, ii. .‚ñ† the goddess Syria, ii. ZS.Thetis, i. .Tooftiina, ii. .



Temple of Tridafia, ii. ill.



Triptolemus i. i\*



. Trophonius iii .



Venus Celestial, i. . X



, , the ruinat



of, ii. -



tune, r .



ii. c. iii. .



Erycina, ii. .Marine and Oppora



. Martial, i. .. Mclams, i. .



Migonitis, .-Ohmpian, ¬´. .. the Speculatrix, i.



.



Sponsa. i. *



. Summachia. ii--



‚Äî , called the Temple



in it Tile, ii. /



Urania, i. .



‚ñ† Verricordia, i.  fy.



, called the common Vesta of



the Arcadians, ii. .‚Ä¢a‚Äî‚Äîof Victims, t. ^-



, called by the Mef^



senians, Hierothysino, i. -



Victoiy without wing¬ª, i¬´



t.



winged Victory* i. .Violence, i. .



called the altar of the Cyclops,



i. .



‚Äî in Attica, called Colonies of



Cities, i.  to all the Cods, i. . .



.



the Twelve Cods, ii. .



, an ancient one, and its corv-



tents, i. .‚Äî' , one with a two-fold entrance,



I. J.



Tcnerus, the plain, iii. *‚ñ† , the prophet, the son of Apol≠lo and Mr j. iii. . .Tennes, iii. r .



Tt rcus, theThracian, iii. . ill.Teucer, i. .



, the posterity os, reigned over



the Cyprians, i. .



Teumessus, a place in Thebes, iii. ".



Teuthis, the village, ii. .



, an Arcadian general, parti≠culars of, ii. -.



Tcuthi'ts, the Athenian, i. a.



Tciubroaev



i ii b E \. 



Tcuthrone, a Spartan town, i. .



. -



Thalam√¶, a place so called in Sparta,



'‚Ä¢ -



Thales, the Milesian, lii. .Thaliades, a place in Arcadia, ii. .Thalpius, ii. .



Thamyris, the son of Philammon ar.dthe Nymph Argiope, i. . iii. .



* , a statue of, iii. .



, a picture of, iii. S.



-, the meaning of the blind≠ness of, iii. .



Thalium, an Acluian city, ii. .



Thatheum, i. .



Theagenes, i. J.



‚Äî, a statue of, ii. .



Theantus, the Olympic victor, ii. Ic.



Thearidas, iii. .



Theatre at Athens, I. .



Thebaid, the, a verse from, ii. .



Theban kings, the genealogy of the,



'iii. ."



Thebans, the, restored to their coun-'try, by Cnslander the son of Anti-pater, i. .



‚ñ†- , the transactions of the, iii.



>S-



'‚Äî, tftie, reduced by Sylla to a



very calamitous condition, iii. .



Thebe, the daughter of Asopus, ii. .



'‚ñ† Prometheus,



iii. II.



Thebes, the seven gates of, raised, ac≠cording to Nonnus, agreeably to thenumber and order of the seven pla≠nets; and the meaning of this, iii.-



Thcccaleon, a building so called inAltis, ii. .



Theganufla, a desert island, i. .



Thelpusa, the city, ii. .



Themiscyra, i. .



Themisonium, the city, iii. .



Themistocles, ii. .



s , the offerings of, rejected



by Apollo, iii. .



Theocles, the statuary, ii..



Theoclus, the prophet of the Mcsse-nians. i. a.



‚ñ† ‚Äî valiantly rushes on the Spar≠



tans, and falls covered with wounds,i. ..



Theocosmus, the statuary, i. u. ii.



. iii. ,< Vol.Ill,



Theocrestus, a victor in the Olympic



horse-race, ii.  iS.Thcodorus, the Samian, first discovered



the method os casting iron, i. *.‚Ä¢ , one of the first that taught



how to cast brass, and melt it into



statues, ii . , a victor in the Olympic



quinquertium, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî , the father of the Sibyl



Herophile, iii. .Thcognctus, a victor in wrestling in



the Olympic games, ii. .Theomclidse, a place in Sparta so call≠ed, i. .Theomn;stus, the statuary, ii. .Theophilus, the Athenian archon, iii.



.



Theophrastus, iii. .Thcopompus, the son of Nicander, i.



. . .



‚Äî , his speech to the La≠ced√¶monian army, i.. , a victor in the Olympic



quinquertium, ii. . Sinopensis, his account



of a large skeleton, iii. .Theopropus, the statuary, iii. .Theotimus, a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. .Theoxenus, ii.  .Thera, a place near die mountain Tay-



getus, i. .



, the island, i, .



Therapne, i. . .Theras, the son of Ion, i. . , the sou of Autesion, i. *



ii. .



Theron, the statuary, ii. .Tliermius. ii. .Thermodon, the torrent, iii. .Theronice, ii. .Therophone, ib.



Therfander, the son of Agamididas,



i. .



- ‚Äî, the son of Polyniccs, ii.



Thei silochus,a victorious pugilist in theOlympic games, ii. .



Thersites, a picture of, iii. i.



Thersius, a victor in the Olympic cha≠riot-race, ii. .



Theseus, picture-of, Sic. i. . iii. i<.



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, the meaning of the fable of,in which he is said to have been¬£ t bouni



Index.



bound by Pluto, and liberated byHercules, iii. , .



Thespia, the city, iii. .



Thespius, the son of Ercchtheus, ii. 



Thesprotis, a piece of poetical compo≠sition, ii. til.



Thessalonice, the daughter of Philipthe son of Amyous, ii.. iii. .



Theftius the father of Leda, i. .



Thetis, a statue of, i. .



Thifbe, the city, iii. .



Thifoa, the Nymph, ii. . .$.



Thins, the river, ii. .



Thoas, ii. . iii. .



Thocnia, the city, ii. .



Thocnus, the sen of Lycaon, ii. ..



Tholus, a place in Attica, containing



silver statues, i. .



, a round figure of white stone,



f. .Thomas, i. .



ThracianJ, the, called by the Creek:,



Boreans, iii. .Thracis, the city, iii. .Thrasybulus, the Elean prophet, ii.



. .



Thrasydrus, the Elean, makes a peacewith the Laced√¶monians, i. .



Thronium, the city, ii. . ‚ñ†



Thucydides, i. . ii. .



Thuriatarse, the city, i. .



"Thyades, the, Attic women so called,iii. .



Thyia, the daughter of Castalius, iii..



, a picture of, iii. .Thyia;, a festival of the Eleans, in



honour of Bacchus, ii. .Thylacus, the statuary, ii..Thymoetes, the son of Oxyntas, i. .Thyraeum, the city, ii. .



‚Ä¢‚Äî , ruins of, ii.  .



Thyrea, the town, i. .Tufa, the river, i. .



, the daughter of Eurotas, it.



Tiber, the kikt, ii. i¬ª.Tigea, a city of Arcadia, i. .Tilphussa, the fountain, iii. .Tim√¶netus, a victor in the armed



course, iii. .Timagcnidas, the Theban, ii. .Ttmalco, i. .



Timandra, the daughter os Tyndareut,ii. zti.



Timanthes, the pancratiaB, ii. T¬ªT,



Timarchides, the statuary, iii. .



Timasitheus, a victor in the Olymp?*pancratium, it. .



Timeas, the statue of, i. .



Timocles, the statuary, iii. .



Timocratus, the Rhodian, bribes thrGrecians to war on the Latedztruxnians, i. .



Timon, the Elean, conquered in the*qu'mquertium, ii. . .



, a victor in the Olympic cha≠riot-race, ii. .



, the son of √Ügyptus, ii. ;



Timoptolis, the Elean, ii. .



Timosthenes, a victor in the Olympicstad.um, ii. .



Timotlieus, the statuary, i. .



- Cononis, i. .



, the Milesian, ¬ª verse os,



ii. .



Tipha, the city, iii. .



Tiphys, the pilot of the ship Argo,



iii. - , . .Tirestas, the divining tower of, .



‚Äî‚Äî, a picture of, iii. ij;.



-, the meaning of his becom≠ing Wind through beholdingMinerva,iii. .



Tiryns, ruins of, i. .



Tirynthus, the son of Argus, i. .



Tisamenus, the son of Orestes, i. .



‚Ä¢ , particulars of, i. , ^



Tisamenus, a king of the Thcbans,iii. -



Tisandcr, the statuary, iii. .



‚ñ† , a victorious pugilist in the



Olympic games, ii. It.Tistas, the orator, ii. .Tisicrates, a victor in the Olympic



stadium, ii. .Tisis, the son of Alcis, i. I.Titan, the brother of the Sun, i.



.



Tiuna, a town of the Sicyonians, i.



. ii. ^J.Tithorca, iii. .Tithranstes, i. .Tithronium, the town, iii. or.Titus Flaminius, iii. . C.Tlepolemus, a victor in the Olympic



race with a single mule, ii. .Torches, an Argiv* festival so called,



i. a¬´fr.



T¬ªsvV



INDEX.' '*



Tomb of √Üdipus, t. .



‚ñ† the sons of √Ügyptus, i. . √Ügyptus, the son of Bclus,



‚ñ† √Üpytus, ii. .



Tomb, called √Üsymnium, i. .



‚ñ† of Agamemnon and his cha≠rioteer Eurymedon, ‚ñ†‚Ä¢ .



Tombs of the kings called Agidae, i..



Tomb of Alcman, i. ;.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Alcmene, i. .



Alope, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Amphilocus, i. .



‚ñ† the children of Amphion,iii. .



‚ñ† Amphissa, iii. .'‚ñ† Anchises, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî Andr√¶mon, iii. .‚Äî‚Äî Androclus, the sen of Co-



drus, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî AnthemocrituSi i. .‚Äî‚Äî Antiope and Phocus, iii.



.



‚ñ† ‚ñ† Apollodorus, i. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Aras, i. . .



‚ñ† n- the Arcadians that fell in



the engagement against the Eleans,ii. .



 Areas, the son of Callisto,



Tomb, brazen, i. ,



of Caanthus, iii. ,



‚Äî‚Äî Callipolis, i. .



Callilto, ii. .



Caius, i. .



 Car, the son of Phoronem,



i. .



. .



Arcesilaus, iii. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Argus, i. .



Ariadne, i. .



Aristocratcs, ii.j.



‚ñ† Aristodemus, ii. .



 Aristomenes, and the man≠ner in which the Melscnians sacrificeon it, i. .



‚Äî Aristias, the satirist, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî Asphodicus, iii. .



Astrabacus, i. .



‚Ä¢ Astycratea and Mantes, i.



.



 those Athenians that fought



against the √Üginetse, i. .



 in Athens, called the heroum



of √Ügeus, i. .



‚Äî-et-Aweus, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Auge, the daughter ofAleus, ii. .



‚ñ† ‚ñ† Autonoe, i. . , the daughter of



Cepheus, ii. .



Brasidas, the sen of Tcllis,



neus,



Carpus, i. .Castor, i..Cephisidorus, i. .Cerdes, the wife of Phoro-



‚Ä¢ '-



Chalcodon, ii. . . .



Cinadus, i. .



Cleatus, i. .



‚ñ† the Cleon√¶i, i. .‚Äî^‚Äî Clisthenes, ii.



‚Äî Clymene, the mother of



Homer, iii. .



‚Ä¢ Clytcmnestra and √Ügisthus,



i. .



.



Conon and Timotheus, i.



Cor√¶bus, i. !.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Corinna, iii. .



Cranaus, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî Cretan archers, i. .



‚ñ† Crotopus, i. .



Cylarabus, i- *



‚ñ† Cynortas, i. . Demosthenes, i. .



 Diogenes ofSinope, i. %



Echemus, ii. ^



Eleclra, i. .



. Endymion, ii. .



‚ñ† Epaminondas, ii. ."‚Äî‚Äî Ephialtes and LycurguSj



orators, i. .



‚Ä¢ Epimelides, i. .



- Epimenides, i. .



the Cretan i.



.



Epopeus, i, ,



‚ñ† Eriphyle, i.,.



‚ñ† Erifichthon, i. . "‚ñ† Eubulus, i. .



Eucofmus, the son of Ly-.



curgus, i. .



 Eumedet, i. .‚Äî‚Äî Eumolpus, i. nr.



Enpolis, the Athenian, ¬ª



writer of comedies, i. .



Eurybiadas, i. :‚Ä¢‚Ä¢>.



. r.



Tombs, royal, of the Eurypontidar,i. ¬ª.



E e t TomK



^ I N D E X."



Tomb of Eurypylus, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî Eurystheus, i. IJZ.



‚ñ† Eurytus, i. . Ucroic. of √Ügeus, i. .



.. √Ügiaicus, i. .



h .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî AlcitnuSj i..



‚ñ† ‚Äî Akm√¶on, the sonof Amphiaraus, ii. .



, of Aicori, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Amphiaraus, i. .



‚ñ† Aratus, i. .



‚Äî Aulun, i. S.



‚ñ† ‚Äî Cadmus, i. .Cccrops, the Ion of



Pandion, iii. .



Chilon, i. .Cleod√¶us, the son



of Hyllus, i. .



Cynifca, i. .



.



olvcus, i. .



i. .



Doccus, i. .‚Ä¢ Echephron, ii. .. Enar√¶phorus, i.



Hippolytus, i. .Hippothoon, i. *Ino, ..Iolaus, iii. $,lops, i. .Iphigenia, i. Ij\Lclcx, i. $.Perseus, i. .Sebius, i. .the posterity of Oi-



Flat√¶a, iii. .Plemon, i. .l'odares, ii. --Promachus, ii. .the son of Taygete,



Tcleclus, i. .



‚Äî-‚Äî Theseus, i/.¬£arex, i. I\



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî raised by Harpalus, i. .



‚ñ† of Hector, the son of Priam,iii. .



‚Äî . HeliodoruS Halis, i. .



‚ñ† the Sibyl Hcrophile, iii..



Hesiod, iii. .



the suitors of Hippodamia,



ii. S.



*.



Hippolyte, i. .Hippolytus, i. .Hippos, or the Horsej i.



Tomb of Homer, iii. If .' ‚Ä¢ Hyacinthus, i. *



Hyllus, i. :.



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Hypermnestra and LynceuSj,i. .



Tombs, royal, of the lamid√¶, i..



Tomb of Idas and Lynceus, i. .



Ion, i. .



‚Ä¢‚Äî Iphicles, the brother of



Hercules, ii. .Tombs ol Iphimedea and the sons of



Aloeus iii. .Tomb of Iphinoe, i. .



‚Äî the sons oflphitus, iii. .



certain knights, i. .



Lada?, i. .



‚Äî, Lais, i. .



Tombs of Laius and the servants that



followed him. iii. .Tomb of Las, i. .



‚Äî LcagTus, i. .



. Lcitus, iii. .



Lclei, i. .



Leonidati i. ,



. Licymnius, i. .



‚Ä¢ Linus, the son of  .



i. ,



. I.ycurgus, i. .



Lycus, i. IJJ.



I.ysander, iii. .



. Machaon, i.  b.



Maidoniu;, iii- .



‚ñ† ‚Äî the horses of Marmai, ii,



.



i-i the head of the Corgoa



Medusa, i. .



Megareus, i. .



Melanippus, iii. .



Melcsander, i. .



Melissa, i. .



‚Äî Mcnoeceus, iii. .



Mermen: and Pheres, tht



sons ot Medea, i. ;.



Miltiades the son of Cimcn,



. .



Minyas-, iii. .



‚Äî Molossus, i. .



Myrtilus, ii. S.



Nestor, i. .



Kicocles Tarentinus, i. ic¬´



Nilcus ii. .



the children of Oedipus,



iii. .i ‚Äî Oenomaus, ii, .



Tom'j



I N D E X. *



‚Ä¢Tomb of Oenopion, ii. .



. Oeonus, i. .



. Oicles, ii-  ?g.



.   Hynthua, i. .



Opheltes, i r .



Orestes, i. . ii. .



Orion, iii. .



‚Äî Orsippus, i.  :o,.



‚Äî Oxylitj, ii. .



. Pandiop, i. lie.  r.



- in Megalopolis, called Par√¶ba-



sium, ii- .



‚Äî of Patrcus, ii. .



Patrotles, the lather of Me≠lissa, i. .



Pausanias, the general of the



Plat√¶snfcs, i. ?i-



. Pelifgus, i. .



Tombs of the daugh.ers of Pelias, ii.".



Tomb of Penelope, ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî Pericles, Clubrias, and



Phormio, i. .



Perseus Gorgophone, i. .



‚Äî Ph√¶dra, i. ?o.



‚Äî‚Äî Phocus, i. .



the Phoczi, ii. .



Phoroneus, i. iqo,



Phyalus, i. .



'indar, iii. , .



Pitiheus, i. .



she B√¶otian Platarenfes, i.



-



Plato,  qr.



. ‚Äî Pttlcmarchus, i. .



Preucene., ii. .



‚Ä¢ Prometheus, ii. .



Plasamathe, i. . .



Pyrges, i. .



‚Äî Pyrrho, the Ion of Pisto-



crates, ii. re?.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Pyrrhus, i. .. Rhadine and Leontichus, i.



.



‚Äî a Rho^ian, i. .



‚Äî Sacadav i. .



‚ñ† Sauius ii. .



Scmelc, iii. }.



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî certain Sicyonians, i. .



'Sostratus, ii. r;,



^‚Äî‚Äî Sph√¶rus, the charioteer ofPclops, i. .



. Sihenelus, i. T.



‚Äî Taenarus, i. .



. Tuntalus, i. J.



Tomb of Talaui, trie son of Bias,i. .



. Talthybius, . .



the herald, ii.



.



‚Äî Tegeatas and his wife Me-



ra, ii. .- Telamon, ii. .



'Teledamus and Pelops, i.



io.



‚ñ† Telephas, the piper, i. .‚Äî‚Äî Temenus, i. .



‚Äî Tercus, i. .



. ‚Ä¢‚Äî Themifcyra, ii.



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî Themistocles, i. rot. Theodectcs,Phasclitas,MneT



sitheus, i. . Theodorus, the tragic actor,



i. .



Theopompus, the son of



Nicander, i. .



Therfinder, iii; .



the Thessali&n knights, i.SS,



Thrafybulus, i. ^.



Thrafymed, i. ,



Thyestes, i. .



Tiresias, iii. .



‚ñ† Tolmides and his soldierj,i. .



Tyndareus, i. .



Urnethes, i. .



Xenodice, i. .



Tombs of Zeno, Chryfippus Solensis,



Nicias, and Ariltogiton, i. . Zcihus and Amphion, iii,



.



Tomb, a common one of the Colopho-nians and Smyrn√¶ans that died inbattle, ii. a.



‚ñ† , common, of theGrceks, iii.



, a common one, of those that



fell in the engagement against Alex≠ander, iii. .



‚Ä¢ , a common, of the Thebana



that fell in the engagement againstPhilip, iii. .



Tombs of those that fell at Corinth, i..



‚Ä¢ ‚ñ† those that sought in a naval



\ battle about the Hellespont, i. .‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî those that fell at Dclium, ii.



those that Lensthcies led. ii.



those that followed Olym-



piodorus, ib.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî certain soldiers, it.



 Tombi



%zx t N D E X.



Tombs of those that were led by Ci-



mon, i. .



those that sell at Thcbei,



i. .



Tomb of those Athenians that fell in



a battle against the Persians, i. .‚Äî of those that followed √Ügia-



Icus to the Theban war, iii. .‚Äî‚Äî, an empty one, of certain Ai-



gives, i. .‚ñ† of the women that followed



the army of Hacchus, i. .¬´ , a magnificent one belonging



to the Jews, ii. .‚Äî‚Äî of those that died fighting



against the Medcs, i. .Tragus, a perpetual river, ii. .Trajan, the emperor, i. .



, a statue of, ii..Trapegui, the city, ii. .Trapezeus, the son of Lvcaoo, ii. .Trapezuntia, a place in Ajcadia, ii.



¬´- . ‚Ä¢ .‚ñ†



Trapezus, the city, ruins of, ii. .Treasury, a, dedicated by Myron the



Sicyonian tyrant, ii- , '.‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, of the Carthaginians,



ii. .



Treasuries in Olympia, an account ofthe, ii. ‚Äî.



Tretus, the town, i. .



Tricoloni, the city, ii. . .



Tricolonus, ii. . at..



Trkrena, the boundatics of the Phe-ncalac, ii. .



Trigouon. a place of judgment amongthe Athenians, i. .



Trinacria, the island, i. .



Trinasus, the walls of, i. .



Triopas, i. .



‚Äî‚Äî, a statue of, iii. .



Tripodes, a road in Attica, i. .



Tripodiscus, the town, i. .



Tripods, brazen, called by Homer,destitute of sire, i. .



Triptolcmus, ii. .-Trilaules, ii. . I



Tritia, an Achaian city, ii. ..



. , the daughter of Triton, ii. ^ I.



Triton, a wonderful statue of, and par≠ticulars of, iii. .



Triton, the torrent, iii. .



Tritons, the form of the, iii. ?.



Troezenii, the, i. .



Troilus, a victor in the Olympic per≠fect chariot-race, ii. ,



Trophaea, a place in Arcadia, ii. - c j.



Trophonius, the architect! iii. .



, remarkable account of theCave and Oracle of, iii. ‚Äî.



Trophonius and Agamedes, the ar≠chitects, particulars of, iii..



, the death



of, according to Cicero, iii..



Troy, the subversion of a picture of,iii. .



Turbe, a festival os Bacchus se called,i. .



Tuthoa, the river, ii.  r.



Tydeus, the Elean, a statue of, ii. .



Tyndareus, i. . . it.



. , the sons of, the cause of



their wrath against the Messcmans,



i. .



Tyndarus. the sons of, . .



Typhon √Ügiensis, ii. .



Typhon, the symbolical meaning os,



unfolded, iij. .Tyronidas, ii. .Tyrt√¶us, verses of, i. . :, .



-



‚Äî , an Athenian grammarian, i.



, %%z.‚Äî‚Äî appeases the discontent of the



Laced√¶monians by his verses, i.



.



Tyrrhenus, the inventor of the trum≠pet, i, .



v,



VARIOUS, a place ofdisputation fa



calltd in Sparta, i. .Venus, a grove of, ii. .



Ambologera, a statue of, i. 



Apostrophia, iii. .



Celestial, a statue of, ib.



-‚Äîr‚Äît , why so called, iii.



‚Ä¢.



, the daughter of Ui-



one, remarkable account of, fromthe MSS. Scholia ¬ªf Produs on theCratylus, ib.



the ruler of the



Fates, iii. .



- Colias, statues of, i. . Juno, the statue of. i. .



- Mechanitis, a statue of, ii. ^. -, why called Melnnis, iii. .



‚ñ†‚ñ† Nitophoios, the statue of, i.  S?UYenus^



I N D e X.



Vtfrui Popular, iii. .



‚Äî‚Äî-- Praxis, i. .



, why called Verticordia, iii.



.



Venuvians, the, ii. S.



Vespasian, the Roman emperor, im≠posed on the Greeks an annual tri≠bute, ii. .



Vessels, perforated, the meaning of theuninitiated pouring water into, inHades, iii. r.



‚Äî‚Äî, the two placed by the throneof Jupiter, according to Ilomer, themeaning of, iii. .



Victory, a golden statue of, ii. .



Vipers in Arabia, the bite of, not dan-eerous, through their being fed withthe juice  the balsam tree, iii. .



Virgil, iii. ^.



Vulcan, a'definition of the nature of,iii. .



u.



UD√ÜUS, the Spartan, iii. to.Ulysses, i. ", ii. .-‚Äî-‚Äî, a picture of, iii. .Ur/mpicuS; the Roman general, ii.



.



Umbilicus, a place among the Phli-



asians, so called, i. .Uninitiated, the, according to Plato, in



the Gorgias. the molt wretched of



those in Hades, iii. .



X.



XANTHIPPUS, the son of Ari-phron, a statue of, i,o.



is chosen general of the



Athenians, ..



destroyed the fleet* of the



Xanthus, the son of Ptolemy, iii. .



Xenarges, a victor in the Olympic pan≠cratium, ii. .



Xenias, the Elean, i. . ii. .



Xenocleas, the prophet, iii. .



Xcnocles, a victor in the Olympicgames, in wrestling, ii. .



Xenocrates, iii. .



Xenocratus, the statuary, iii. ;.



Xenodamus, the pancratiast, iii. ,



Xenodice, a picture of, iii. .



Xenodicus, a victorious pugilist in theOlympic games, ii. .



Xenodocus, the Messenian, . .



Xcnombrotus, a victor in the Olympichorse-race, ii. .



Xenon, the Achaian, ii. .



Xenophilus, the statuary, i. .



Xenophon, the warriour, i. .



, the statuary, ii. . iii.JJ.



, the sons of, statuaries, i. ¬ª



‚Äî‚Äî‚Äî, the son of Gryllus, ii. .



‚Äî‚Äî, the pancratiast, ii. .



Xuliius, i. . ii. .



Medes, ii. .



the son of Deiphontes, i



.



ZACYNTHUS, the son of Darfa-



nus, ii. .Zancl√¶i, the inhabitants of Sicily, i.



. ,Zancie, it.



Zanes, braen statues of Jupiter ¬£¬ª



called among the Cleans, ii. .Zaraca, a maritime city of Laconia,



i. . . -



Zeno, a victor in the Olympic stadium,



ii. .



Zephyrium, the'promontory, i. .Zethus, iii.  r.



Zeuxidamus, the son of Archidamus,



i..Zeuxippus, i. .Zoetion, the city, ii. .Zoeteus, ii.



Zyp.etcs, a Thractan, ii. jj.



Errata.



Kg*.



Line. Vol.



-



-



.



H-



-



i.



¬ª-



-



.



¬ª-



'-



.



Si.



i.



St.



*-



.



'



. i.



.



-



i.



.



i.



¬ª-



i.



.



IV



i.



.



ii.



i.



H-



V-



'.



.



.



I.i.



-







i.



For A&aon read Ael√¶us.



For LeueJr'ca read Leutfra. .



For and Triton read cf the lake Trifms.



For Salamina read Salami's.



For huvingsmt a messenger read htingsent at



a messenger.Blot out Jhc \>¬´rds messenger.For Parabyftux and Tt /genm read PaTabyslor:



and Tt igenotr.For vertebra read fate!!*.For √Üantidet read √Üaniit,Instead of But to the haivnt of the Corinthian*



they gave the names of J.eche and Cenchrea,



read, Leches and Ctncbreas gaze namesto the havens of the Corinthians.For is called Tbetnidus read is ca/ltd the altar



of the Themidar.For became read betimes.For Platawflunta read Platanijfut.For read



For Slicxus <&bv read Silenus whom.



DIRECTIONS to THi BOOKBINDER.



Place the two maps to face Page . Vol. I.



The picture of the Temple of Olym≠pian Jupiter to face ‚Äî . ‚ñ†



The Tower of the Winds, -‚Äî ‚Äî‚Äî



The Ionic Temple on the banks of



the Iliffus, to face ‚Äî . ‚ñ† ‚ñ† ¬ª



The Monument of Lysicrates, to



face , ‚Äî .



The Doric Portico, to face  ‚Ä¢



 



THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARYREFERENCE DEPARTMENT



This book is under no circumstances to betaken from the Building



 



 



 



